{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 In the previous sections, we have reviewed in detail some of the [open problems](#openproblems) inherent to the *mirrortree* family of methods. This work tries to diagnose some of these problems and propose alternatives or recipes to overcome some of the methodological limitations that appear as a consequence of our incomplete understanding of the co-evolutionary process affecting interacting proteins. Here, we propose a set of recommendations that can improve the performance and range of applicability of *mirrortree*-based methodologies.\
\
During the last decade, this family of techniques has been largely used by many different groups to predict protein interactions mostly in genome-wide computational experiments. However, the co-evolution-based prediction is also valid when single putative interactions need to be evaluated. Therefore, we present the Mirrortree Server, in which the users with any level of expertise can carefully explore the similarity between a pair of phylogenetic trees using an interactive interface.\
\
More difficulties arise when the co-evolution analysis is performed for large sets of potentially interacting proteins. Some of these problems appear as a consequence of our lack of understanding of the ultimate cause(s) for the observed co-evolution of interacting proteins. Although some authors suggested that co-adaptation and co-evolution occur at the same time in highly dependent proteins, others have shown skeptical regarding the co-adaptative phenomenon. All attempts aimed at getting insight into this by evaluating co-evolution at protein surfaces/interfaces (the regions intuitively related to co-adaptation) used information on crystallized protein complexes, which is scarce. We approach this problem using predicted solvent accessibility, which can be obtained for any sequence with good accuracy.  \
\
Other problems arise from the growing number of sequenced organisms available. Whether the large number of redundant genomes affect the *mirrortree*-based methodologies is a capital question necessary to understand the viability of the method in the next years. Therefore, we evaluated the performance of different *mirrortree*-related methods predicting different sets of interactions using trees generated from different sets of organisms selected based on taxonomical criteria.\
\
Finally, considering all the aforementioned analysis, we redesigned the original *mirrortree* to re-score the interacting candidates based on a null distribution of random co-evolution. The distances within a set of phylogenetic trees based on a given set of organisms are randomly permuted to generate a null distribution of tree correlations. This distribution is used to calculate the probability of finding a given correlation coefficient. Using the sets of organisms available in the period 2000-2010, we benchmarked the performance of the original *mirrortree* and the introduced method, named *p-mirrortree*. Moreover, we studied the ability of this novel metric to predict protein interactions using context-based methodologies, in which the full matrix of pairwise similarities is used for the prediction of single pairs.\
\
In the next sections, we will discuss the results of these analysis and their implications in future improvements of co-evolution-based prediction of protein interactions. Here, we provide different tools and recipes that will enhance the accuracy and understanding of interaction predictions for users with any level of expertise.  }