{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f1\fs28 \cf0 *Generales*\
One of the technical limitations is the generation of trustable phylogenetic trees at a genomic scale. The intermediate steps, such as ortholog detection, sequence alignment, distance estimation or tree generation, need to be carefully considered, particularly in complex evolutionary scenarios such as HGT events[#Pazos:2005hl]. Future implementations with a reasonable tradeoff of computing time and accuracy might help build more reliable evolutionary models. Another unresolved problem is the measurement of the phylogenetic tree similarity. As the tree comparison requires unambiguous mapping of proteins at a species level, the \'93correct\'94 protein orthologs need to be identified. This task can be especially hard in eukaryotes in which the large number of paralogs and multi-domain proteins complicate the correct assignment[#Tillier:2009ff]. On the other hand, the correlation of protein distances calculated either from the MSAs[#Pazos:2001rm] or from the phylogenetic trees[#Pazos:2005hl] has proven particularly useful as a similarity metric. Nevertheless, some studies suggest that most complex schemas involving multidimensional spaces are needed in order to consider the multiple dependencies of protein distances[#Choi:2009gu].\
\
Another clear limitation to progress in this field is the need to correctly benchmark the predictive methods. The lack of adequate gold standards for positive and negative interactions conditions [the evaluation of the methods](#assessingpredictiveaccuracy) especially for large-scale predictions.  Blind tests with hidden gold standards would be the best way to accurately compare methods.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f2\fs24 \cf0 \
*Sobre selecci\'f3n de organismos*\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f1\fs28 \cf0 Thus, the selection of an optimal set of organisms may be critical for two reasons. On one hand, the reference set may act as a proxy for the interaction age: whereas ancient interactions would require complete trees, the more recent interactions may be detected with a small set of close organisms. On the other hand, the importance of the reference set is becoming mandatory as the number of fully sequenced genomes grow. With several thousands of genomes available, heuristic approaches may help improve the performance, avoiding a waste of computational time.
\f2\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
\cf0 \
}