{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 The Mirrortree server represents the first web application for interactively assessing the co-evolution between a pair of phylogenetic trees in a taxonomic framework. Since the tool contains a number of additional functionalities, the server is adequate for either general tree comparisions or co-evolution studies focused on protein interaction prediction.\
\
One of the main advantages of Mirrortree server is its simplicity. The server combines, for the first time, a straight forward pipeline to automatically generate phylogenetic trees with a user-friendly visualizer to explore the results. The multiple dependencies necessary to implement a standalone pipeline made it difficult for non-expert users to perform co-evolution analysis. The server overcomes some tasks, *a priori* difficult for most biologists, such as keeping the databases updated, running programs in command line or parsing files. Any user with a flash featured browser can, starting from two single sequences, compare a pair of protein families of interest without any additional software. But the tool is not only intended for non-expert users. Those users with a deeper knowledge in the field might also tune the phylogenetic reconstruction using the advanced options. Moreover, the Mirortree Server UI provides an intuitive framework to compare a pair of phylogenetic trees and explore their similarities in a taxonomic context. The UI can be used to visualize the trees generated by the server, or any other pair of trees provided by the user, in which the mapping between leaves is known. Because of the interface\'92s flexibility, the applications of this tool, originally designed to explore co-evolution, can be extended to any other areas in which the comparison of phylogenetic trees is informative.\
\
Previous tools have also tried to explore similarities between two or more trees but focusing on different aspects. For example, TSEMA[#Izarzugaza:2006bw] explores the tree similarity between a pair of protein families already reported as interacting. The general objective of this tool is to find the proper mapping between the equivalent protein homologs in both trees. Contrary to the Mirrortree server, this tool requires MSAs as input, hence making it more difficult to use for non-expert users. Moreover, it does not allow to interactively manipulate the trees. Another example of a web server implemented to quantify the similarities in protein evolutionary histories is ADVICE[#Tan:2004ee]. This tool, intended to postulate potentially interacting pairs, also compares automatically generated phylogenetic trees. However, the results are shown as simple correlation coefficients, ignoring the additional information necessary to understand the results. In that sense, tree representations and different features to interactively analyze the trees using taxonomical information would add applicability to this tool. Moreover, this server is no longer available.\
 \
During the last 36 months in which the server has been online, more than 1.500 unique visitors submitted more than 3.000 jobs from 62 different countries. A successful example was published in the *Nature* journal studying the peroxiredoxin family[#Edgar:2012jd]. By using the server, the authors observed correlated evolution between this family of proteins and the most ancient known clock mechanism: the cyanobacterial Kai proteins. This evidence supports the hypothesis that redox cycles of peroxiredoxins act as circadian clocks in humans. Indeed, they suggest that, contrary to established hypothesis of independent evolution of circadian clocks within different lineages, both systems may share a common ancestor back in the beginning of the aerobic life.\
\
As future improvements for this server we would like to implement in it some of the methodologies described in this thesis, such as pMT. }