{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 The fact that the incorporation of accessibility predictions worsens MT results suggests that the score of this methodology might be highly influenced by general non-specific co-evolutive processes. These general forces, which can produce similarities in evolutionary rates, would spread their signal through the whole sequences and would not necessarily be restricted to certain regions of exposed residues. This observation is supported by the fact that MT performances correlate positively with the number of positions used to generate the trees. In consequence, when the informative residues spread along the polypeptide chain are removed, the performance of MT predictions decreases.\
\
On the other hand, the PC and CM methods benefit from the use of predicted accessibility when applied to the prediction of binary direct physical interactions. Within the possible explanations for this improvement is that the sensibility of these two methods, previously associated with a more specific co-evolution[#Juan:2008rz], detects co-adaptative events more accurately than more general co-evolution. These co-adaptative events intuitively occur at a higher frequency in binary physical interactions, where the role of compensatory mutations is more critical than in partners without direct physical interaction. Therefore, the enrichment in co-adapting residues expected when filtering by predicted accessibility, together with the higher sensibility of the PC and CM methods to these events, explain the improvement observed in the results.\
\
 Another interesting point refers to the definition of accessibility that optimizes the interaction prediction. The results indicate that those residues with a minimal area predicted as accessible (\\\\(\\ge2\\angstrom^\{2\}\\\\)) work better than those with larger areas (\\\\(\\ge12\\angstrom^\{2\}\\\\) and \\\\(\\ge50\\angstrom^\{2\}\\\\)). This evidence suggests that the co-adaptative signal is not necessarily restricted to totally exposed residues but can also happen between neighbors through allosteric effect. Thus, in order to optimize the predictions, the adequate number of residues needs to be considered to balance the enrichment of co-adaptative signal and the more general co-evolutionary signals.\
\
The results also indicate that the accessibility predictions obtained from the MSAs constructed for this purpose get better performances than those predicted from the MSAs used to generate the phylogenetic trees. The fact that \'93richer\'94 alignments containing eukaryotic sequences and eventually paralogs show more accurate predicted accessibilities was corroborated by previous reports in which the authors state that the quality of the MSA is critical for obtaining good accessibility predictions[#Rost:1994dp]. They suggest that accessibility predictions are more sensitive to alignment errors than other features such as secondary structure. This observation might be a consequence of the fact that accessibility is evolutionarily worse conserved than the secondary structure[#Przybylski:2002us]. Unfortunately, the accessibilities predicted from the already generated MSAs of orthologs show sub-optimal performances, and thus the MSAs need to be generated *ad hoc* for this purpose.\
\
}