{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\fs32 \cf0 accessibility\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\fs24 \cf0 are better detected than those representing binary (eventually transient) interactions\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b \cf0 Predicted accessibility only helps the PC and CM methods in detecting binary physical interactions\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b0 \cf0 In the same line, these specific co-evolutions (with larger proportions of co-adaptations) are intuitively more related to direct physical interactions than, for example, to those relating the members of macromolecular complexes.\
It is also interesting that the set of predicted accessible residues which renders the best results include residues with a minimal predicted solvent accessible area (> = 2 \'c5
\fs16 \up10 2
\fs24 \up0 ), which are better than those with higher levels of predicted accessibility (> = 12 \'c5
\fs16 \up10 2
\fs24 \up0 , > = 50 \'c5
\fs16 \up10 2
\fs24 \up0 ). That could be explained by the fact that co-adaptation is not necessarily restricted to totally exposed residues but can also happen between their neighbours or even buried residues (through allosteric effects).\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b \cf0 It is better to use accessibility predicted from MSAs constructed for this purpose, than that based on MSAs with orthologs only\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b0 \cf0 The fact that accessibility predicted from \'91\'91richer\'92\'92 alignments (including eukaryotic sequences and eventually paralogs) is better in helping these co-evolution based methods than that based on alignments containing only bacterial orthologs was expected. It was previously shown that the quality of the MSA is critical for obtaining good sequence-based predictions of protein features such as accessibility or secondary structure.
\fs16 \up10 19 
\fs24 \up0 Never- theless, we wanted to make a test with MSAs of orthologs due to a methodological reason: these MSAs have to be generated in order to apply mirrortree and related methods. Consequently, if the accessibility predicted from them turned out to perform similarly to that predicted from richer alignments, it would be trivial to add this accessibility prediction step to current mirrortree workflows. Unfortunately, although some improvement is obtained with that accessibility, the best results are obtained when using that predicted from richer alignments. Consequently, in order to obtain these optimal results the workflow has to be \'91\'91bifurcated\'92\'92, generating one alignment for tree construction and another one for accessibility prediction, as shown in Fig. 1.\
Conclusions\
The underlying cause for the observed relationship between protein co-evolution and interactions is still not totally clear. The possible explanations range from unspecific co-evolution due to the similarity of evolutionary rates of interacting proteins, to specific co-adaptation involving inter-protein compensatory changes.
\fs16 \up10 8,16 
\fs24 \up0 It is possibly the first factor the one playing a major role since evolutionary rate and interactions have been previously related through a number of direct and indirect paths.
\fs16 \up10 15,31 
\fs24 \up0 The co-evolution observed in pairs of functionally related proteins which do not necessarily interact physically (e.g. ref. 32 and 33) is also easier to understand under this hypothesis. Nevertheless, compensatory changes have been repeatedly observed in protein interfaces (e.g. see ref. 8) and are surely playing a role in the co-evolution of interacting proteins at a local level. However, it is difficult to conceive these changes as mostly responsible for the observed tree similarity, since a very large number of such compensatory changes would be necessary to have an effect on the shapes of the trees. Previous studies tried to disentangle these two factors by comparing the co-evolution of protein regions amenable to compensatory changes (surfaces and interfaces) to that of the whole protein length.
\fs16 \up10 15,18 
\fs24 \up0 In this work we tackle this problem but using predicted solvent accessibility, instead of real surfaces.\
We have demonstrated that using predicted solvent accessibility helps in the co-evolution based prediction of protein interaction under some circumstances. Besides the implications of these results for the debate on the contribution of co-adaptation to the observed relationship between tree similarity and interactions, this work has also practical implications for the application of these methodologies, and these are not only related to the improvement in the prediction of protein interaction. Since this method goes on a step further in the detection of the protein regions actually co-evolving, it opens interesting possibilities for studying how the residues at the interfaces change and co-adapt during evolution. This could give some insight into the physico-chemical basis of protein interactions since the coordinated changes at the interfaces would provide a picture of possible interactions modes for a particular protein family. Moreover co-evolution has been proposed as a mechanism for maintaining interactions between proteins while allowing them to change at the same time. In many inter- acting protein families co-evolution is reflected in a set of specific surface residues which concomitantly change in both interacting partners. These residues are good candidates for mutagenesis experiments aimed at switching the interaction specificity of the proteins and/or adapting them to new interaction partners.\
It is also important to highlight that the improvement obtained when incorporating predicted solvent accessibility does not have any associated cost in terms of coverage/applicability, since accessibility predictions can be generated for any sequence.\
}