{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Our results unambiguously indicate that the set of organisms used to generate the phylogenetic trees critically influences the protein interaction predictions. In general, the growing number of available organisms produces two opposite consequences in *mirrortree*-based predictions. On one hand, the phylogenetic reconstructions are then based on more complete representations of the evolutionary history of the protein families. Therefore, it is not surprising that the methods benefit from the enriched co-evolutive information available when comparing more detailed trees. On the other hand, the sequencing efforts have explored the tree of life in a non-homogenous way. Whereas several redundant organisms have been sequenced in some clades, others remain relatively incomplete, artificially biasing the co-evolutionary analysis. As a consequence, we observe that MT predictions perform better when using complete and non-redundant representations of the tree of life. Indeed, as long as more organisms are sequenced, the accumulation of redundant organisms increases the performance gap between the predictions calculated using all the available organisms and the ones obtained using an equivalent list where the redundant organisms have been excluded. Alternatively, PC, CM and pMT deal better with this redundancy bias, showing similar performances in equivalent redundant and non-redundant sets.\
\
Once we understand that the set of organisms used to generate the phylogenetic trees influences the interaction prediction, it is necessary to pay attention on how the taxonomical distribution of these organisms influences the prediction of the different types of interactions. Ancient and stable physical interactions might be more accurately predicted using sets of organisms different than the ones used to predict transient or functional interactions. Ancient interactions such as those happening between proteins in the same macromolecular complex, for instance, are expected to be conserved for most of the orthologs along the tree of life, hence the associated co-evolutive landmark is expected to be spread through the whole taxonomy. Indeed, this hypothesis is supported by our results, since we observe better performances when proteins in the same complex are predicted using organisms spread along the whole taxonomy. The opposite phenomenon is observed when we evaluate binary physical interactions. These interactions are better predicted when we use subsets of taxa close to the reference organism. In general, binary physical interactions are \'93newer\'94 and enriched in transient interactions. Considering that \'93rewiring\'94 is more frequent within transient interactions[#ChongShou:2011dk], it might occur that the orthologs of two proteins involved in a transient interaction in a given organisms are not interacting in a relatively distant one[#Aloy:2003iu][Mika:2006gx]. In other words, many of the  interactions we are evaluating might be new and hence specific for *E. coli* and its close neighbors. This hypothesis would explain that our predictions for these type of interactions are better when these particular genomes are used for constructing the trees. Similar improvement is shown when the analysis of proteins involved in the same metabolic pathway is limited to close taxonomical neighbors. Interestingly, similar relationships between the \'93age\'94 of the interactions, their conservation across the taxonomy and the optimal set of organisms for predicting them has been reported for the \'93phylogenetic profiling\'94 method[#Jothi:2007in].\
\
The comparison of distance matrixes is a NP-hard problem and, consequently, can be severely affected as the number of available genomes continues to grow. Even robust methods such as pMT need to solve the computational problem of calculating millions of branch lengths for every phylogenetic tree. Hence, our results invite to propose a set of simple and general \'93recipes\'94 on which sets of organisms more properly detect the co-evolutionary forces behind a given type of interaction, avoiding to use all available. The first question that arises when a user is about to perform a regular co-evolution-based prediction of protein interactions is if a set of phylogenetic trees, which can be considered as background, is available (i.e. all the proteins in the same organisms, proteins in the same cellular compartment). With a set of background phylogenetic trees, the statistical confidence of a given correlation can be evaluated (pMT), or the coevolutionary profiles considered as proxies of the co-evolutionary signal of a given protein (PC and CM). All these methodologies are particularly robust to the set of organisms and benefit from rich representations of the evolutionary histories of the proteins. Alternatively, in order to reduce the computational cost of the analysis, the user can restrict the study to the non-redundant organisms without expecting a negative impact in the prediction performance. On the other hand, the requisites to obtain reasonable performances in MT are more restrictive. The set of organisms used to generate the phylogenetic trees should be filtered by taxonomic redundancy. Filtering at the strain or species level seems to be enough according to our results.}