{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 The results presented here demonstrate that the prediction of protein interactions is clearly improved when the statistical confidence of the correlation is evaluated based on a background distribution of tree similarities. Using this distribution of expected correlations corrects in a natural way many of the factors discussed that affect the performance of the original MT, including the background similarity derived of the underlying speciation process[#Sato:2005kx][Pazos:2005hl], the redundancy of the original set of organisms and the different range of organisms in which the candidate proteins are present.\
\
One of the main observations previously described is the fact that the set of organisms used to generate the phylogenetic trees conditions the resulting correlation. Indeed, one of the main advantages of pMT compared with methods such as PC or CM is its ability to evaluate independently pairs of proteins sharing different number of organisms in common. Since the analysis of all the possible combinations of organisms in common would be unfeasible due to its computational complexity, pMT uses the number of organisms in common as an approximation. As the phylogenetic trees of a given protein are usually generated looking for orthologs using an organism as a reference, the number of organisms shared by a couple of trees is directly related to the set of organisms in which both proteins are present. Despite the genes sharing events of horizontal gene transfer, it is expected to find the different sized groups enriched in the same organisms. For example, using *E. coli* as reference, the common organisms in two pairs of trees both with 5 organism in common will most likely be the same. \
\
Another advantage of pMT over MT predictions relies on its coverage. Usually, MT is applied only to the pairs of trees with a minimum number of organisms in common and, consequently, many pairs of families are not explored. This common procedure significantly reduces the method\'92s coverage diminishing the final results. Since the pMT *P*-values can be calculated for any pair of trees regardless the number of organisms in common, the improvement in AUC is produced at no cost in terms of coverage. Indeed, the full coverage of pMT is particularly interesting for context-based approaches such as PC or CM, which take as input the whole matrix of co-evolutionary scores. Alternatively to the sparse matrixes produced by MT, pMT results contain the full matrix of possible pairs in the genome of interest. Considering the better AUC and the better coverage, it is not a surprise that PC obtains better accuracies using pMT *P*-values than MT correlations. More promising are the results proposed by the here introduced HCA methodology, which considerably reduces the number of false positives. Moreover, the HCA can be informative of some structural features of the protein complexes, such as the example of the ATP synthase. This information is extremely valuable considering that the method is able to describe that kind of structural relationships only using information at sequence level. }