{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 The promising results described here leave the door open to future improvements on co-evolution-based prediction of protein interactions. Whereas some research is necessary to polish the technical details on creating and comparing accurate phylogenetic trees, a deeper effort is needed in order to capture the co-dependencies at the sequence level established between interacting proteins. \
\
Although the tree reconstruction has not shown as a limiting step on protein interaction prediction, a proper tuning of the technical details might help the detection of co-evolutionary events. The intermediate steps necessary to accomplish this task, such as ortholog detection, sequence alignment, distance estimation or tree generation, need to be carefully considered, particularly in complex evolutionary scenarios such as HGT events[#Pazos:2005hl]. Future implementations with a reasonable tradeoff of computing time and accuracy might also help to build more reliable evolutionary models at a large scale.\
\
Another unresolved problem is the measurement of the phylogenetic tree similarity. As the tree comparison requires unambiguous mapping of sequences at a species level, the \'93correct\'94 protein orthologs need to be identified. This task can be especially hard in eukaryotes in which the large number of paralogs and multi-domain proteins complicate the correct assignment[#Tillier:2009ff]. On the other hand, the correlation of protein distances calculated either from the MSAs[#Pazos:2001rm] or from the phylogenetic trees[#Pazos:2005hl] has proven particularly useful as a similarity metric. Nevertheless, some studies suggest that most complex schemas involving multidimensional spaces are needed in order to consider the multiple dependencies of protein distances[#Choi:2009gu].\
\
Another limitation to the progress in this field is the need to correctly benchmark the results of the predictive methods. The lack of adequate gold standards for positive and negative interactions conditions [the evaluation of the methods](#assessingpredictiveaccuracy) especially for large-scale predictions. In the future, blind tests with hidden gold standards would be the best way to accurately compare the different methods.\
\
One of the emerging problems, which will gain importance on the next years, lies on the consequences derived of the huge amount of genomic data generated nowadays. On one hand, we know with this work that, with the proper methods, the interaction prediction still benefits from the more and more genomes available. On the other, the computational complexity growths exponentially with the number of genomes requiring, large computational resources. In the future, heuristic methods similar to the ones looking for optimal sets of organisms in phylogenetic profiling[#Muley:2012cq][Simonsen:2012ee] might help to reduce the complexity and avoid a waste of computational time in phylogenetic tree comparison.\
\
This work has also practical implications for the application of these methodologies, and these are not only related to the general improvement in the prediction of protein interaction. It opens interesting possibilities for studying how the exposed residues change and co-adapt during evolution. This could give some insight into the physico-chemical basis of protein interactions, since the coordinated changes at these regions would provide a picture of possible changes affecting the interactions. These residues might be good candidates for mutagenesis experiments aimed at switching the interaction specificity of the proteins and/or adapting them to new interaction partners. \
\
Moreover, the Mirrortree Server framework should serve as reference for highly specialized groups studying in parallel the co-evolution of their respective systems. Hence, it is expected that our understanding of the co-evolution at a molecular level increases with multiple examples such as the peroxiredoxins[#Edgar:2012jd].\
}