{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Alternatively to the low throughput analysis of protein-protein interactions, the *mirrortree* family of methods have proven particularly accurate in predicting different types of interactions at a large scale. Although our main goal was to better understand the different phenomena rather than comparing the different variants of the methodology, the results are in agreement with previous studies[#Juan:2008sf]. The lower MT performance compared with PC and CM had been previously reported but can be better understood at the light of our results. The naive design of MT ignores the phylogenetic biases introduced as consequence of the incomplete statistical model. This problem seems to be corrected by using pMT, which obtains similar AUCs to those algorithms that take advantage of the genome-wide co-evolutionary networks, such as PC, CM or the HCA. Despite of not reaching pMT\'92s AUC, this family of context-based methods is particularly interesting to predict a few number of reliable interactions, since the number of false positives is considerably reduced. More interesting is the ability of HCA to inform about the structure of co-evolving protein complexes.\
\
Another general trend can be observed if we attend to the performance when the predictions are evaluated using different types of interactions. The fact that all methodologies render better results for interactions in the same macromolecular complexes had also been reported[#Juan:2008sf]. Whether this particularly good performance is a consequence of biological reasons, such as the permanent and stable nature of the interactions between proteins within the same complex, or to technical artifacts, derived from the construction of the negative gold standard, remains unclear. On the other hand, the prediction of binary physical interactions, despite not presenting such high AUCs, displays a reasonable performance, which benefits from the growing number of organisms sequenced over the last decade. The reason for those intermediate AUCs could be related with the heterogeneity of the gold standard, in which the accurately predicted ancient interactions would be mixed with newer interactions presenting similarities in local regions of the trees. Moreover, our results indicate that the predictions of binary physical interactions can be improved by incorporating predicted structural features, such as solvent accessibility. Finally, the prediction of interactions established as co-membership in the same metabolic pathway, in spite of being different from random, might not be of practical applicability at large scale. The explanation for the observed trends might be that the evolutionary pressure for partners to co-evolve is expected to be higher in proteins forced to interact permanently than in those with occasional associations.\
\
Multiple causes can influence the coverage and AUC of a given prediction such as the number and distribution of organisms where the pair of proteins is present, the type of interaction predicted or the scoring method, regardless of the problems related to the results evaluation. Besides, the assessment must be considered in the context of application of a given technique. For example, if we are particularly interested in a small set of highly confident interaction candidates, evaluation using AUC may not be informative; hence, alternative evaluations need to be considered such as precision-recall or evaluation of top scoring results.}