{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 The observation that predicted accessibility only helps the PC and CM predictions in detecting binary physical interactions can be understood as an additional evidence in the co-adaptation *vs.* general co-evolution debate.  \
\
As commented before, the causes underlying observed co-evolution between interacting proteins are still not totally clear. There is some controversy in the field to define what is observable at sequence level versus the underlying evolutionary phenomenon. Here we remain tight to the disambiguation between clearly observable phenomenon of \'93co-evolution\'94 and the more elusive concept of \'93co-adaptation\'94 between co-evolving components[#Pazos:2008bq][Juan:2008rz][Lovell:2010fn]. In this definition, co-evolution would be confined to the general concerted patterns of co-variation observed at sequence level without implying reciprocal evolutionary events. Alternatively, co-adaptation implies reciprocity as the causal phenomenon behind the observed co-evolution. In this sense, co-adaptation would be referring to, for example, the compensatory changes required for maintaining protein interactions. The more general co-evolution, which usually implies a similarity in the evolutionary rates, has been described for proteins which do not necessarily interact physically, but share a certain functional relationship[#Liang:2010ff][Clark:2012jc]. Although these general forces seems to dominate the tree-tree similarities, compensatory changes have been repeatedly observed in protein interfaces and are surely playing a role in the co-evolution of interacting proteins. However, it is difficult to conceive that these local compensatory mutations are enough to change the distances in a pair of phylogenetic trees and thus their global similarity. Therefore, previous studies tried to focus on interfaces or the surrounding surfaces of structurally determined interactions, in order to enrich the signal in regions amenable of compensatory mutations[#Hakes:2007jp][Kann:2009bv]. Nevertheless, both studies were limited by the relatively small amount of structural data available, so the true extent of their affirmations needs to be evaluated.\
\
At the light of the results described herein, we demonstrated that the protein interaction prediction can be improved by using predicted solvent accessibility under certain circumstances. Unsurprisingly, those methods detecting more specific similarities - PC and CM - were the ones achieving greater performances when predicting those type of interactions in which the co-adaptation is expected to play a more important role: the binary physical interactions. These results suggest that a co-adaptative signal, despite being residual, can be informative in order to predict physical interactions under certain conditions.}