{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 1. We have developed a framework, MirrorTree Server, to study the co-evolution of protein families in a taxonomic context. This tool includes an automatic pipeline to generate the phylogenetic trees of the protein families of interest, and a interactive visualizer to explore their similarities and taxonomic characteristics. Due to the multiple functionalities incorporated, the server have proven to be useful for users with any level of expertise.\
\
1. The *mirrortree*-based family of methods have proven particularly accurate in predicting different types of interactions at a large scale. Moreover, important information on the structure, function, and evolution of interacting proteins can be inferred using these methodologies.\
\
1. Incorporation of predicted solvent accessibility helps co-evolution based binary physical interaction prediction when context-based methodologies such as *Profile Correlation* or *ContextMirror* are applied.\
\
1. The co-adaptative signal, despite being residual, is detected by co-evolution-based methods under certain circumstances and can be informative in order to predict physical interactions.\
\
1. The set of organisms used to generate the phylogenetic trees conditions the final performance of the protein interaction prediction methods based on co-evolution. Therefore, the inclusion of sequences belonging to close organisms helps the prediction of \'93recent\'94 interactions, whereas sequences belonging to distant organisms help the prediction of relatively \'93ancient\'94 interactions. \
\
1. We introduced new methodology denominated *p-mirrortree* to evaluate the protein co-evolution between a pair of phylogenetic trees based on a null distribution of tree similarities obtained as consequence of shuffling a background set of phylogenetic trees. This methodology outperforms original *mirrortree*, independently of the set of organisms used to generate the phylogenetic trees. Moreover, *p-mirrortree* results demonstrated a higher accuracy when used as input of context-based approaches.}