{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 High-throughput techniques have been applied during the last years in order to systematically predict protein interactions. The resulting evidences need to be considered in the context of the technique used to detect them, since the limitations of these technologies may influence the reliability of the interaction. Some of those limitations emerged when methods as Y2H or TAP-MS were applied to determine genome-wide protein interactions. Interaction maps using these approaches have been described for different model organisms such as *Helicobacter pylori*[#Rain:2001ve], *Escherichia coli*[#Butland:2005in], *Saccharomyces cerevisiae*[#Ito:2000ly][Uetz:2000db][Schwikowski:2000bu][Gavin:2002dm][Ho:2002dn], *Caenorhabditis elegans*[#Walhout:2001gi][Simonis:2009va], *Drosophila melanogaster*[#Giot:2003fy] and *Homo sapiens*[#Rual:2005it][Stelzl:2005ht]. However, the low reliability of this analysis is one of the main drawbacks in the large scale study of protein interactions. For example, the first two genome-wide analysis performed in yeast revealed 692 and 841 putative interactions, respectively[#Uetz:2000db,Ito:2000ly]. Nevertheless, the overlapping between both sets was of about 20% of the interactions[#Ito:2000ly]. More recent studies estimated a false-negative rate of 90% and a false-positive rate of 50% for these datasets[#vonMering:2002kg,Sprinzak:2003ur]. The reason for these particularly poor numbers could be partially explained by the unstable nature of many interactions.\
\
In spite of the natural causes, the inherent experimental biases of the most used techniques need to be addressed. Y2H and TAP-MS, for instance, generate a lot of false positives and miss a lot of known interactions. Y2H has the advantage of being an *in vivo* technique able to accurately detect interactions without prior knowledge of the complex. However, their results are biased towards nonspecific interactions, especially if the following additional methodological limitations are not considered[#Deeds:2006ia]. Firstly, an important limitation on the coverage of Y2H is related to the fact that not just any protein can be targeted. Since proteins initiating transcription by themselves produce false positives, the study of transcription factors and their interacting proteins requires alternative methods. Secondly, the structural effect of expressing sequence chimeras might be particularly awkward as fusion can change the structure of the target protein. Thirdly, the experimentalist needs to be aware that protein features such as post-translational modifications are not necessarily conserved between the organism of interest and yeast. On the other hand, even though TAP-MS can report indirectly bound proteins in order to yield protein complexes, the contamination of the target is a frequent disadvantage especially if we don\'92t have prior knowledge of the system. Therefore, the majority of experimental evidence cannot distinguish between direct interactions and those mediated by at least one intermediate protein[#Edwards:2002vt]. Moreover, since the interactions are reproduced *in vitro*, the consequences of altering the protein environment and therefore the interaction are hard to predict. This effect is particularly critical on transient interactions which are particularly elusive on TAP-MS. Another limitation common to most of the experimental techniques is the fact that they hardly detect interactions involving proteins in low abundance. In consequence, even the curated datasets are heavily biased towards proteins in high abundance[#vonMering:2002kg].  \
\
All the discrepancies found in the published datasets, together with the aforementioned technical issues, invite to be cautious when interpreting results from high-throughput studies. Accuracy can be increased by combining data sets[#Bader:2002iq][vonMering:2002kg][Yu:2008ce], by repeated screening[#Venkatesan:2009jo] and by [confidence evaluation](#assessingpredictiveaccuracy)[#Yu:2008ce]. Nevertheless, these additional steps require an additional cost added to the price of experimental procedures expensive by themselves.\
\
}