{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
One of the most successful techniques that has accelerated the screening of interactions *in vivo* is the yeast two-hybrid (Y2H) methodology. Y2H takes advantage of the fact that eukaryotic transcription activators have at least two different domains, one that binds to the DNA promoter (BD) and another that activates the transcription (AD). It has been reported how the transcription can be disrupted by splitting the activator in their two constituent domains, whereas the activity can be restored if BD is physically associated with AD[#Fields:1989dm]. This modular property allows both domains to function in proximity to each other without direct binding. Under this principle, plasmids are engineered producing protein products containing BD and AD fused to the 2 proteins whose interaction is being assayed. The chimeric sequences are usually referred to as bait and prey respectively. If the two proteins interact, a downstream reporter gene is activated, producing a detectable phenotype. Although the typical setup often involves beta-galactosidase as reporter in yeast, numerous variations of Y2H have been developed to include systems with several reporter genes, one and three hybrids to identify interactions with DNA and RNA[#Fashena:2000cw,Causier:2004cq,Auerbach:2002gh,VanCriekinge:1999kg], detection of interactions in mammalian and prokaryotic cells, as well as systems for detecting membrane protein interactions[#Toby:2001cn,Lee:2004jv,Walhout:2001gi,Aronheim:1997we,Mohler:1996ul].\
\
The setup initially designed to explore pairs of proteins has been adapted to screen entire genomes in two different approaches[#Bartel:1996kf][Finley:1994vc][Walhout:2000wm]:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 *	Matrix approach. A matrix of prey clones and mated bait strains is created using distinguishable well plates. Those wells showing interacting chimeric proteins are selected based on the expression of a reporter gene.\
\
*	Library approach. The library may consist of random cDNA fragments or open reading frames representing the proteins expressed in a particular organism or tissue. Positive interactors are usually selected based on the ability of the engineered strain to grow in specific substrates.\
\
Independently of the high throughput approach followed, it is noteworthy that Y2H is intended to detect binary interactions, even if the technique is applied genome-widely. }