{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red9\green47\blue157;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa120

\f0\fs26 \cf0 A 
\b protein microarray
\b0  (or 
\b protein chip
\b0 ) is a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/High-throughput_screening"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 high-throughput}} method used to track the interactions and activities of proteins, and to determine their function, and determining function on a large scale.
\fs22 \cf2 [1]
\fs26 \cf0  Its main advantage lies in the fact that large numbers of proteins can be tracked in parallel. The chip consists of a support surface such as a glass slide, nitrocellulose membrane, bead, or {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microtitre_plate"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 microtitre plate}}, to which an array of capture proteins is bound.
\fs22 \cf2 [2]
\fs26 \cf0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Probe"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 Probe}} molecules, typically labeled with a fluorescent dye, are added to the array. Any reaction between the probe and the immobilised protein emits a fluorescent signal that is read by a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Laser_scanning"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 laser scanner}}.
\fs22 \cf2 [3]
\fs26 \cf0  Protein microarrays are rapid, automated, economical, and highly sensitive, consuming small quantities of samples and reagents.
\fs22 \cf2 [4]
\fs26 \cf0  The high-throughput technology behind the protein microarray was relatively easy to develop since it is based on the previously-developed {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DNA_microarray"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 DNA microarray}} technology.
\fs22 \cf2 [5]
\fs26 \cf0 \
\
____\
\
The proteins are arrayed onto a solid surface such as microscope slides, membranes, beads or microtitre plates. The function of this surface is to provide a support onto which proteins can be immobilized. It should demonstrate maximal binding properties, whilst maintaining the protein in its native conformation so that its binding ability is retained. Microscope slides made of glass or silicon are a popular choice since they are compatible with the easily obtained robotic arrayers and laser scanners that have been developed for DNA microarray technology.\
The chosen solid surface is then covered with a coating that must serve the simultaneous functions of immobilising the protein, preventing its {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Denaturation_(biochemistry)"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 denaturation}}, orienting it in the appropriate direction so that its binding sites are accessible, and providing a {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hydrophilic"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 hydrophilic}} environment in which the binding reaction can occur. In addition, it also needs to display minimal non-specific binding in order to minimize background noise in the detection systems. Furthermore, it needs to be compatible with different detection systems. Immobilising agents include layers of aluminium or gold, hydrophilic polymers, and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gel_electrophoresis"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 polyacrylamide gels}}, or treatment with {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amines"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 amines}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aldehyde"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 aldehyde}} or {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Epoxy"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 epoxy}}. Thin-film technologies like {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Physical_vapour_deposition"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 physical vapour deposition}} (PVD) and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chemical_vapour_deposition"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 chemical vapour deposition}} (CVD) are employed to apply the coating to the support surface.\
An aqueous environment is essential at all stages of array manufacture and operation to prevent protein denaturation. Therefore sample buffers contain a high percent of {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glycerol"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 glycerol}}(to increase the freezing point), and the humidity of the manufacturing environment is carefully regulated. Microwells have the dual advantage of providing an aqueous environment while preventing cross-contamination between samples.\
In the most common type of protein array, robots place large numbers of proteins or their {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ligands"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 ligands}} onto a coated solid support in a pre-defined pattern. This is known as robotic contact printing or robotic spotting. Another fabrication method is {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inkjet_printer"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 ink-jetting}}, a drop-on-demand, non-contact method of dispersing the protein polymers onto the solid surface in the desired pattern.
\fs22 \cf2 [7]
\fs26 \cf0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Piezoelectricity"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 Piezoelectric spotting}} is a similar method to ink-jet printing. The printhead moves across the array, and at each spot uses electric stimulation to deliver the protein molecules onto the surface via tiny jets. This is also a non-contact process.
\fs22 \cf2 [8]
\fs26 \cf0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Photolithography"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 Photolithography}} is a fourth method of arraying the proteins onto the surface. Light is used in association with {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Photomasks"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 photomasks}}, opaque plates with holes or transparencies that allow light to shine through in a defined pattern. A series of chemical treatments then enables deposition of the protein in the desired pattern upon the material underneath the photomask.
\fs22 \cf2 [9]
\fs26 \cf0 \
The capture molecules arrayed on the solid surface may be {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antibodies"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 antibodies}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Antigens"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 antigens}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aptamer"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 aptamers}} (nucleic acid-based ligands), {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Affibody_molecule"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 affibodies}} (small molecules engineered to mimic monoclonal antibodies), or full length proteins. Sources of such proteins include cell-based expression systems for {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Recombinant_proteins"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 recombinant proteins}}, purification from natural sources, production {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In_vitro"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 in vitro}} by {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cell-free_protein_array"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 cell-free translation systems}}, and synthetic methods for {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peptides"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 peptides}}. Many of these methods can be automated for high throughput production but care must be taken to avoid conditions of synthesis or extraction that result in a denatured protein which, since it no longer recognizes its binding partner, renders the array useless.\
Proteins are highly sensitive to changes in their microenvironment. This presents a challenge in maintaining protein arrays in a stable condition over extended periods of time. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In_situ"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 In situ}} methods involve on-chip synthesis of proteins as and when required, directly from the DNA using cell-free protein expression systems. Since DNA is a highly stable molecule it does not deteriorate over time and is therefore suited to long-term storage. This approach is also advantageous in that it circumvents the laborious and often costly processes of separate protein purification and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/DNA_cloning"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 DNA cloning}}, since proteins are made and immobilised simultaneously in a single step on the chip surface. Examples of In situ techniques are PISA (protein in situ array), NAPPA (nucleic acid programmable protein array) and DAPA (DNA array to protein array).\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 [{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Protein_microarray&action=edit&section=3"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 edit}}]\
}