{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 The phylogenetic profiles (PP) related methods are based on the hypothesis that functionally associated and potentially interacting proteins co-evolve in the way they are likely to be inherited or eliminated in a codependent manner. One hypothesis explains this presence/absence pattern as \'93reductive evolution\'94. If the cooperative interaction of both proteins determines the function of the system and one of the proteins is lost, the evolutionary pressure to maintain the other protein disappears. Likewise, if a protein is recruited, the interacting partner needs to be \'93acquired\'94 in order to be functional. The underlying idea is that many complexes or pathways require all their members in order to fulfill their function. These events are compatible with the idea of the \'93selfish operon\'94 in which a cohort of genes are subject of horizontal gene transfer[#Lawrence:1996wj].\
\
A phylogenetic profile is constructed for each protein as a vector representing its presence/absence in a set of genomes. Originally, the vectors were encoded as binary where \'931\'94 denotes presence and \'930\'94 absence in a qualitative way[#Gaasterland:1998va][Pellegrini:1999eu][Marcotte:1999eu]. Nevertheless, the binary representation is a simplistic way to encode the evolutionary events of a protein in a profile. Therefore, the similarity of the sequences with a reference organism was incorporated at each position in order to enrich the vectors with quantitative data[#Date:2003zl]. Phylogenetic profiles constructed at domain level[#Pagel:2004ky][Ranea:2004dh] or using phenotypic traits[#Levesque:2003uv][Gonzalez:2008jq] has also been used in both qualitative or quantitative ways. Once the profiles are defined, multiple measures of similarity has been used including euclidean distance[#Marcotte:1999eu], mutual information[#Date:2003zl] or Hammings distance[#Wu:2003vs]. \
\
Several evidences demonstrated wether proteins with similar phylogenetic profiles are functionally related. For instance, homologs of *E. Coli* ribosomal protein RL7 were found in most of eubacterial genomes and in yeast but not in archeal genomes. The same pattern can be found in many ribosomal proteins functionally related to RL7[#Pellegrini:1999eu]. Other examples of correlated profiles include flagellar proteins and proteins involved in amino-acid metabolism[#Pellegrini:1999eu].\
\
The performance of the method has been demonstrated to be strongly affected by the set of organisms selected to build the profiles. As more and more completely sequenced genomes become available, more evident is the fact that the best predictor not necessary requires all the available data[#Sun:2007eq]. Indeed, depending on the type of functional relationship we are trying to detect, the optimal set of organisms may change. Organisms in the three superkingdoms have been proposed as adequate for conserved interactions (e.g. translation  apparatus), whereas species in the same superkingdom are more accurate for more variable pathways as carbohydrate metabolism[#Jothi:2006de]. Comprehensive studies recently analyzed the effect of reference taxa with 565 bacteria suggesting to sample organisms in order to achieve better performances[#Muley:2012cq]. Since the manual selection of reference set could be arbitrary, machine-learning algorithms has been developed reaching higher accuracies even in eukaryotes[#Simonsen:2012ee].\
\
The applications of phylogenetic profiles can also be extended establishing the linkage between 2 proteins when their profiles are anti-correlated in the way they represent the negation of each other[#Morett:2003kf]. This assumption that relationships between functionally related phylogenetic profiles can be explained using logic operators, was more recently exploited using triplets of profiles in order to look for higher order relationships as complementation[#Bowers:2004df].\
\
Using the mentioned methodology, the presence/absence of every gene is equally weighted, independently of the number of causing evolutionary events. The identification of gain/loss events combining phylogenetic trees with phylogenetic profiles, allows the estimation of profile similarity likelihoods. Different implementations of this approach introduce Markov models[#Barker:2005be][Cohen:2012hn], kernel trees[#Vert:2002vo] or explicit comparison[#Zhou:2006ic]. All previous approaches have not considered the fact that gene clusters may strongly coevolve in some parts of the evolutionary tree while exhibiting a very weak signal in other periods. This asymmetry on the coevolutionary signal called *Local Coevolutionary* problem has been subject of different studies but remains a computationally challenging task[#Kim:2006cg][Tuller:2010ii]. \
\
In spite of the fact that phylogenetic profiles show in the last decade as a powerful and intuitive methodology, some disadvantages need to be addressed. Despite the previously mentioned limitations, one of the most important problems relies on the construction of accurate profiles. Since the profiles are usually designed using orthology relationships, it can only be applied to complete and well annotated genomes to be sure of the absence of a given gene. Even on those cases, the orthology assignment is not trivial. Moreover, essential proteins or those specific for a given genome, behave as hard candidates since they are encoded as flat profiles.\
\
At the practical level, automatically generated phylogenetic profiles are available in several resources as STRING[#Mering:2003hp], Prolinks[#Bowers:2004df] or ECID[#AndresLeon:2009fm].}