{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 As demonstrated with the phylogenetic profiles, interacting proteins very often co-evolve, so that changes in one protein are associated with correlated changes in the partner. However, phylogenetic profiles encode for dramatic events as consequence of gene gain/loss in different species, ignoring coordinated changes that may be occurring at sequence level. Such correlated changes were qualitatively reported to occur between ligands and their receptors[#Fryxell:1996fy][Kesteren:1996cs][Pages:1997wp]. The similarity between the phylogenetic trees of  both protein families, despite of not being quantified, indicate certain co-dependencies. However, when the genomic revolution arrived, methods to measure this similarity at large scale became mandatory.\
\
The first method to estimate tree similarities was implemented by calculating the correlation coefficient between distance matrices, as a proxy of their phylogenetic trees[#Goh:2000rz]. The algorithm soon was scaled up to genomic level under the name *mirrortree*, by using the correlation coefficient as indicator of protein-protein interactions[#Pazos:2001rm][Goh:2002vg]. On this initial implementation, for the two protein families for which co-evolution is to be evaluated, multiple sequence alignments are generated using orthologs obtained from a set of reference genomes. *Mirrortree* is estimated by calculating the correlation coefficient between the inter-ortholog distances in the alignment. Unambiguous correspondence between the sequences of the two distance matrices is required. When a pair of proteins shows a high correlation coefficient, the proteins are considered as interacting with each other. More recent modifications suggest that when cophenetic distances calculated using the phylogenetic trees are used instead of the inter-ortholog distances in the alignment, improve the performance of the prediction.[#Pazos:2005hl].\
\
Many successful applications of the *mirrortree* methodology came out during the last years[#Devoto:2003iz][Labedan:2004dn][Dou:2006uw][McPartland:2007dv][Yang:2008dh][PineroGonzalez:2009gw][Leonard:2011ej]. Correlated phylogenetic trees often appears in systems where highly dependent partners must to adapt quickly to environmental changes. Some of the most studied examples are listed below.\
\
*	NADH-ubiquinone reductase. The members of this nuclear-encoded complex have accelerated their amino acid replacements perhaps to adapt to their mitochondrial environment[#Gershoni:2010bu]. The tree similarity between the complex partners displays a particularly high correlation coefficient. In *Escherichia coli* for instance,  NuoE and NuoF subunits show a clear similarity (0.86 in a 0-1 scale) and their interaction is supported by the 3D structure of an homolog complex[#Pazos:2008bq][Sazanov:2006hi].\
\
*	Peroxiredoxins. Recent reports suggest that this family of proteins experience oxidation-reduction cycles acting as markers of circadian rhythms in all domains of life. The correlated evolution between the members of this family and a previously characterized clock mechanism in cyanobacterias allowed to identify this novel functional role[#Edgar:2012jd].\
\
To make this and other analysis possible, a web server to predict protein-protein interactions by the *mirrortree* method was published[#Tan:2004ee]. The tool automated most of the bioinformatic workflow in order to allow non-expert users to perform coevolution analysis. The user provided a pair or a list of protein sequences and pairwise comparisons were permuted for processing. Although, the user could set different thresholds, no other interactive features existed for tree exploration. Unfortunately, the server is no longer available.\
}