{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\fs26 \cf0 Further development of interaction databases is crucial for standardization of the interaction datasets and data- exchange formats, as well as for the integration of the databases with other bioinformatics resources.
\fs24 \
______________\
In addition to direct detection of physical protein interactions, indirect methods can be used to predict the functional association between proteins or to predict the location of the interaction interface itself. There is indeed a wide range of detail characterizing the interactions available from different databases. For example, Y2H data gives the identity of interacting proteins, electron microscopy provides relative positional information of interacting proteins, and crystallography provides full atomic detail of interaction surfaces. In addition, interacting proteins can be studied either as complete units or by domains used as the units of interaction. Consequently, in this review we group all databases into protein and domain-related databases.\
In spite of the interaction data diversity, there exist considerable overlaps in the datasets contained in the databases, making it difficult to recommend a single resource for a particular type of information. In one effort to deal with this redundancy, the International Molecular Exchange Consortium (IMEx) has been formed in which databases agree to share their data in a consistent and timely fashion (Table 2). In addition, a standard data model has been proposed for the representation and exchange of protein interaction data [101]. A few example databases from Table 2 will now be highlighted to illustrate different types of interaction data available.\
_____________________________\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\fs22 \cf0 The past 5 years has seen significant efforts towards obtaining comprehensive protein interaction maps. High-throughput yeast two-hybrid maps for humans\uc0\u8232 have been generated by several groups
\fs14 \up8 2,9,10,122
\fs22 \up0 , yielding more than 7,000 binary interactions. The immunoprecipitation and high-throughput mass spectrometry technique, which identifies co-complexes, is now being applied to humans as\uc0\u8232 well
\fs14 \up8 123
\fs22 \up0 . There have also been major efforts to curate the interactions that have been validated individually in the literature into databases
\fs14 \up8 124 
\fs22 \up0 such as the M\'fcnich Information Center for Protein Sequence (MIPS) protein interaction database, the Biomolecular Interaction Network Database (BIND), the Database of Interacting Proteins (DIP), the Molecular Interaction database (MINT), and the protein Interaction database (IntAct). \
More recent protein\'96protein interaction curation efforts, including the Biological General Repository for Interaction Datasets (BioGRID) and the Human Protein Reference Database (HPRD), have attempted larger-scale curation of data. Additionally, the STRING database contains known and predicted protein\'96protein interactions. Despite these extensive curation efforts, the existing maps are considered incomplete
\fs14 \up8 2
\fs22 \up0 , and the literature-based data sets, although richer in interactions, are prone to investigative biases
\fs14 \up8 25 
\fs22 \up0 as they contain more interactions for the more explored disease proteins
\fs14 \up8 41
\fs22 \up0 .
\fs24 \
\
}