{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 One of the main problems of the original *mirrortree* algorithm was the large number of false positives produced. Even those pairs of proteins that are known as no interacting display high correlation coefficients, reducing considerably the applicability of the methodology. One of the possible reasons of such similarity between unrelated proteins can be explained by the background speciation events underlying both trees. As both partners are influenced by the speciation process, we can assume that, independently of their functional role, the trees will share certain basal similarity with the canonical tree of life. Therefore, several methods emerged to exclude the information about the phylogenetic relationships of the reference genomes, in order to compare the residual information.\
\
Different statistical techniques, as well as different representations of background similarity, has been developed for \'93phylogenetic subtraction\'94.  The first attempts to remove speciation signal subtracted 16s rRNA phylogenetic distances directly from the matrixes of the interacting candidates[#Sato:2005kx][Pazos:2005hl]. This corrected methodology, known as *tol-mirrortree*, found a real interactor among the 6.4% top scores for half of the proteins, compared with the 16.5% obtained by the original *mirrortree*. More successful examples of ligand-receptor interactions exists, now applying a background speciation correction[#Tiwary:2009hn]. However, the direct subtraction of distances from the matrixes ignore the underlying phylogenetic dependencies between the ortholog sequences. Therefore, some sophisticated methodologies tried to calculate the corrected similarities by aligning high-dimensional embeddings of the trees[#Choi:2009gu].\
\
Instead of using canonical trees to address the problem of unspecific tree similarities, some studies suggested inferring background signal from the tendencies observed in the rest of the protein families. These methods are based on the idea that unspecific similarities within a pair of phylogenetic trees can be deduced by comparing them with others. One of the first attempts to take advantage of this contextual information introduced partial correlation coefficient as similarity measure. This metric can be understood as the correlation between a pair of phylogenetic vectors excluding the information of a third vector which contains the background information. By using the variability of the phylogenetic data as third vector, false positive rate was drastically reduced[#Sato:2006eo]. An important improvement of this approach came by using the assembly of the genome-wide co-evolutionary network obtained from the pairwise comparison of the proteins. This approach, called *ContextMirror*, uses the comprehensive calculation of *mirrortree* similarities in a given organism, to calculate the partial correlation of a pair of proteins using a third protein as background correction. Since this third protein can be selected from a big set of proteins, the results are ordered based on the level of similarity with the pair of vectors under study. The level determines the specificity of the signal acting as background, so it provides more insight on the nature of the interaction. *ContextMirror* displays performances comparable to some experimental techniques. In fact, context based methodologies have shown particularly accurate reconstructing large machineries as the bacterial flagellum or the previously reported NADH-quinone oxidoreductase[#Juan:2008sf]. \
\
Since the *tol-mirrortree*-like methods maximize the similarity when both proteins are very similar to each other but different to the species tree, this methodology showed accurate detecting non-standard evolutionary events as Horizontal Gene Transfer (HGT). The term HGT refers to the horizontal exchange of genes between distantly related strains or even species[#Brown:2003bd]. Previously described methods to detect HGT tried to infer the events from indirect evidences as DNA composition bias[#Lawrence:2002tm][Nakamura:2004hb], abnormal sequence similarities between distant species [#Clarke:2002uu] or phylogenetic incongruence of gene tree[#Daubin:2003fr][Kunin:2003tb][Farahi:2003ts]. The *tol-mirrortree*-like family of methods provide another perspective, which implies the presence of at least a pair of proteins presenting the same anomaly.\
\
}