{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;
\f3\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab708
\pard\pardeftab708\ri-198\sl360\slmult1

\f0\fs24 \cf0 One difficulty of approaches based on family tree similarities is that the phylogenetic trees of all protein families retain a degree of similarity to the archetypal \'93tree of life\'94 that represents the global evolutionary relationships between organisms. Consequently, any pair of family trees has a \'93basal\'94 level of similarity, regardless of whether the corresponding proteins are functionally interacting. Some approaches to correct for this organismal speciation use the evolutionary distances between the corresponding species to normalize each protein\'96protein distance\super 67-69\nosupersub . Another alternative is to infer the background similarity not from the general species tree but from the main tendencies of actual data from many protein families\super 70,71\nosupersub .\
____________________________________\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f1\fs28 \cf0 One of the problems of the mirror tree method is the large num- ber of false positives in the prediction. Even protein pairs that are known not to interact often show high correlation coefficients. The abundance of false positives in the mirror tree prediction reduces the reliability of the method in actual applications. The distance matrices of orthologous proteins from the same set of n source organisms are compared in the mirror tree method. Therefore, all of the distance matrices of the proteins are considered to include the information about the phylogenetic relationships among the same n sources, to some extent. The phylogenetic relationships among the identical set of sources behind the distance matrices would be the cause for such a high correlation between non-interacting proteins. If we can exclude the information about the phylogenetic relationships from the dis- tance matrices then the performance of the mirror tree method may be improved.
\f0\fs24 \
\
___________________________________________________\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f2 \cf0 The similarity between two phylogenetic trees is influenced by the speciation process, and therefore there is a certain \'91\'91background\'92\'92 similarity between trees of any proteins, no matter if they interact or not. Different statistical techniques have been developed to account for \'91\'91phylogenetic subtraction\'92\'92 [35]. Simplified versions of this approach were introduced recently to account for the background similarity in protein interaction prediction [36\'9638]. According to one of them [36], the \'91\'91background\'92\'92 tree is constructed from the 16S rRNA sequences and is considered to be a canonical tree of life. The final distance matrices are obtained by subtracting the rescaled rRNA-based distances from the evolutionary distances obtained from the original phylogenetic trees. It has been shown that this method finds 50% of real interacting proteins at a 6.4% false positive rate compared with the 16.5% false positive rate obtained using methods which do not take into account evolutionary distances and the \'91\'91background\'92\'92 canonical tree [29,30].\
____________________________________________________\
One example of how co-evolution studies could be used in confirming and predicting putative interaction partners is the case of DNA colicins and their immunity proteins [39]. Colicins consist of an N-terminal domain participating in translocation across the membrane of the target cell, the central domain which specifically binds to the extracellular surface receptor, and the C-terminal domain responsible for the toxic activity of colicin. Each DNase colicin has a specific immunity protein, which binds to the toxic domain and inhibits its cytotoxic activity. Co-evolution studies showed that there is a significant correlation between the two families of DNA colicins and their immunity proteins (with the correlation coefficient of 0.67), with weaker correlation between Im2, Im8, and Im9 immunity proteins and their corresponding binding partners. Experimental studies indicated that there is indeed a cross-reactivity between colicin E9 and Im8 and Im2 proteins [40].\
____________________________________________________\
Sato\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f3 \cf0 One of the problems of the mirror tree method is the large num- ber of false positives in the prediction. Even protein pairs that are known not to interact often show high correlation coefficients. The abundance of false positives in the mirror tree prediction reduces the reliability of the method in actual applications. The distance matrices of orthologous proteins from the same set of 
\f2 n 
\f3 source organisms are compared in the mirror tree method. Therefore, all of the distance matrices of the proteins are considered to include the information about the phylogenetic relationships among the same 
\f2 n 
\f3 sources, to some extent. The phylogenetic relationships among the identical set of sources behind the distance matrices would be the cause for such a high correlation between non-interacting proteins. If we can exclude
\f2  the information about the phylogenetic relationships from the dis- tance matrices then the performance of the mirror tree method may be improved. }