{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Although there is an area of research focused on using three dimensional data to identify protein interactions[#Aloy:2006fd], the genome-wide analysis would require structural data for every single protein in the organism. Alternatively, the addition of available structural information to the predictions based on similarity of phylogenetic trees can outperform the current methods as well as reveal more insight on the causes of this similarity. For that reason, different studies have focused on whether the co-evolutionary signal is homogeneously distributed along the protein sequences or enriched in regions with structural relevance for the interaction.\
\
Instead of using whole-protein sequences, phylogenetic trees derived from the protein domains involved in the interaction display greater similarity than non-interacting domains within the same proteins. For example, by comparing the domains of the alpha and beta subunits of the ATPase, seven out of the nine domain pairs that are known to interact present a higher correlation than the two non-interacting pairs[#Jothi:2006de]. Despite the structural complexity of the ATPase, it is remarkable how the co-evolutionary signal of the interacting partners remains informative after splitting into their constituent domains. As in the case of whole protein sequences ([](#correctingbackgroundsimilarity)), the domain interaction prediction is significantly improved by removing the background similarity of phylogenetic trees. Indeed, the predictor shows more accuracy when the background removal is applied to the trees based on the most conserved residues, suggesting that both signals are more easily disentangled on those regions[#Kann:2007ec].\
\
The similarity of phylogenetic trees at the domain level suggests the presence of local regions which not necessarily share the evolutionary constraints of the whole protein. Although different studies have tried to explain whether different structural features contribute to the observed similarity, the relative importance of the considered regions in the co-evolutionary signal remains unclear. In that sense, the contribution of protein interfaces to the interaction prediction has been subject to study with contradictory results. Some evidence suggests that residues in the interfaces of stable interactions evolve at a relatively slow rate, allowing them to coevolve with their interacting partners. In contrast, the residues involved in transient interactions present higher plasticity, leaving little or no co-evolutionary signal in the interface[#Mintseris:2005ke]. When the residues in the interfaces are removed, the remaining sequence still contains the co-evolutionary signal necessary to predict the interaction[#Kann:2009bv]. However, whereas some authors understand these results as clear evidence that the co-evolutionary signal is uniformly spread over the sequence, others highlight the presence of strong local signals of co-evolution. The former have demonstrated that no additional improvement could be achieved on protein interaction prediction by limiting the study to either the protein surface or the interaction interface[#Hakes:2007jp]. The latter have defended that binding sites together with their spatially surrounding residues provides a stronger co-evolutionary signal than the same number of randomly selected residues outside the binding neighborhood[#Kann:2009bv].\
\
The actual implications of this debate transcend the analysis of protein interaction interfaces and highlight the evolutionary forces governing the interacting proteins. As commented in previous section ([](#co-evolutionandco-adaptation)), the possible explanations of the observed tree similarities between interacting proteins range from specific co-adaptation between the partners, to general global similarities between their evolutionary rates. The co-adaptative hypothesis assumes that inter-protein compensatory changes occur in order to stabilize mutations at the interface of one interacting partner. Alternatively, some similarity between phylogenetic trees of interacting proteins can also be expected as they share similar evolutionary constraints and, therefore, similar evolutionary rates. Indeed, direct[#Anonymous:2002gr,Hakes:2007jp,Clark:2010fe,Clark:2012jc] and indirect[#Eisen:1998ue,Pal:2001rm,Fraser:2004ic,Subramanian:2004gp,Chen:2006in,Drummond:2006iw] relationships have been established between similar evolutionary rates and protein interactions. The relative prevalence of both phenomena is subject to certain debate. Even if there is evidence of co-adaptative changes, it is difficult to think that co-adaptation is the only process involved in the observed co-evolution. Since many compensatory changes would be necessary in order to affect sequence distances, and hence the phylogenetic trees, it has been proposed that a large proportion of the observed similarity is due to similarities in evolutionary rates. Moreover, the fact that tree-tree similarity decreases rapidly with the distance in the protein interaction network, suggests a network formed by clusters of highly coevolving proteins[#Liang:2010ff]. This concept is compatible with the idea that the evolutionary rate is the main force influencing the tree similarities. Further progress in this area will require a better understanding of both processes, maybe focusing on regions with large proportions of highly co-adapting residues.\
\
Independently of the evolutionary explanation, the structural information is necessary and critical in order to fully understand interactions at the molecular level. Because the set of available structures persists as the limiting resource, the mentioned analyses are all based on relatively small and eventually biased groups of proteins. Moreover, the range of applicability of the suggested modifications drops drastically compared with the sequence based methodologies. Comprehensive structural-feature prediction using sequence information might bypass the problems derived of the data scarcity. Nevertheless, little is known about the effect of using predicted structural features in protein interaction prediction.}