{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\fs26 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\fs24 \cf0 The underlying cause for this observed relationship between protein co-evolution and interactions is still a matter of certain debate. The possible explanations range from specific co-adaptation between the interacting partners to general global similarities between their evolutionary rates.
\fs16 \up10 8,15,16 
\fs24 \up0 The co-adaptative hypothesis proposes that a long process of specific co-adaptation at the residue level (in which interaction de-stabilizing changes in one protein are compensated by changes of similar magnitude in the other) would be the responsible for the observed similarity of evolutionary histories. In the other extreme, it is proposed that this observed similarity could be simply due to the similarity between the evolutionary rates of interacting and functionally related proteins. These two possible explanations for the observed relationship between co-evolution and interactions had been already proposed in the first works dealing with this subject.
\fs16 \up10 17 
\fs24 \up0 While these two factors could be jointly contributing to the observed co-evolution, it is possibly the similarity of evolutionary rates that having a major effect, since compensatory changes would need to occur in large numbers in order to really affect the phylogenetic trees.
\fs16 \up10 8
\fs24 \up0 \
____________________________________\
These include similar expression patterns, com- mon functions in a given pathway, participation in a meta- bolic channelling event or collaboration in a specific cellular process.\
*justifiying Co-adaptation*\
It would make sense, and it is probably the first hypothesis that one might formulate, to think that coordinated changes in protein sequences are mechanistically related to the co- adaptation of the corresponding sequences and structures. The importance of compensatory changes can be justified in terms of maintaining the stability of protein complexes and/or the specificity of their binding to other proteins.\
As described above (see \'91Co-evolution at the residue level\'92), inter-protein compensatory changes, whereby a destabilizing mutation at the interface of one interacting partner is com- pensated for by a mutation in the other partner, have been found experimentally in different systems. Inter-protein com- pensatory mutations have also been proposed as an explana- tion for mutations that are pathogenic in one organism and neutral in others (Kondrashov et al, 2002; Kulathinal et al, 2004; Ferrer-Costa et al, 2007), as well as in cases where protein families are evolving very fast while having to main- tain highly specific interactions with no cross-talk (Watanabe et al, 2000; Kachroo et al, 2001; Liu et al, 2001; Wang and Kimble, 2001; Haag et al, 2002). \
Given that inter-protein co-adaptation at the residue level has been repeatedly observed and it has a plausible physical interpretation, it makes sense to think that the observations of co-evolution at other \'91subprotein\'92 levels (i.e., protein regions or domains) could, to some extent, also be the result of physical compensation. As mentioned above, co-evolution has been detected between entire proteins, protein domains (Jothiet al, 2006), conserved regions (Kann et al, 2007) and between protein surfaces in obligate complexes (Mintseris and Weng, 2005).\
*justifying evolutionary rates*\
Alternatively, a number of forces affecting sets of proteins and genes can generate similar evolutionary rates, such as similar expression patterns, common cellular localization and functioning in a given biochemical pathway. These external forces can create in sets of genes under common pressure signatures of co-evolution without the need for specific co-adaptation between the corresponding proteins. Families with similar evolutionary rates in different organisms would ultimately present similar trees, because the changes that occur in both families and that are responsible for shaping their trees will be of a similar magnitude. Indeed, direct (Fraser et al, 2002; Hakes et al, 2007) and indirect (Eisen et al, 1998; Pal et al, 2001; Fraser et al, 2004; Subramanian and Kumar, 2004; Chen and Dokholyan, 2006; Drummond et al, 2006) relationships between similar evolutionary rates and protein interactions have been found.\
*conclusion*\
Therefore, even if there are indications that compensatory co-adaptive changes occur between interacting proteins and they could moderately influence the similarity of the corres- ponding trees, it is difficult to think that co-adaptation is the only process responsible for the observed co-evolution. It is clear that a large number of accumulated compensatory changes would be needed to affect the inter-sequence distances and hence the phylogenetic trees. In summary, it is possible that a large proportion of the observed tree similarity is due to similarities in evolutionary rates (\'91diffuse co-evolution\'92 under general selective pressure) and that specific co-adaptation (directly related to mutual effects) has a function in shaping the details of the regions of interaction.\
*things to help*direct\
\
One factor that could provide some insight into the causes of any observed co-evolution is its specificity. One would intuitively relate specific co-evolution (particular of a given pair of proteins) to co-adaptation between these proteins, whereas broader nonspecific co-evolution (\'91diffuse co-evolution\'92) involving many proteins would be more easily related to the similarity in evolutionary rates. It is even possible to think of a gradient of specificity in the factors affecting the evolution of proteins, from highly specific factors affecting only a pair of proteins to highly unspecific factors (i.e., grown temperature, osmolarity, y) which affect the whole proteome (i.e. through the differential use of codons).\
Further progress in this area will require a better under- standing of the co-adaptation process at the molecular level, identifying the residues/positions in the protein sequences and structures, as well as the chain of events leading to compensation and their consequences for adaptation. It has been shown that inter-protein-correlated residues are closer than the average (Pazos et al, 1997; Yeang and Haussler, 2007), although co-evolution is not always evident at the protein interface itself (Hakes et al, 2007). Indeed, compensa- tion could occur even over relatively large distances through chains of interactions (i.e., allosteric effects).\
The discussion of co-evolution versus co-adaptation has scientific and practical implications. The first is related to the role of natural selection in the organization of molecular networks (e.g. gene control and protein interaction networks) and to what extent co-adaptation shapes the structure and evolution of protein networks. A practical consequence is the improvement of co-evolutionary-based methods to detect protein interactions, as discussed earlier. Other practical consequences are related to the possibility of modelling protein interactions, engineering specific interactions and designing molecules to interfere with the protein\'96protein recognition process (i.e., in signalling pathways), which would certainly benefit from a more precise understanding of the potential physical co-adaptation between proteins in protein complexes.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\fs18 \cf0 We investigated what roles coevolution plays in shaping yeast protein interaction network (PIN). We found that the extent of coevolution between two proteins decreases rapidly as their interacting dis- tance on the PIN increases, suggesting coevolutionary constraint is a short-distance force at the molecular level. We also found that protein\'96protein interactions (PPIs) with strong coevolution tend to be enriched in interconnected clusters, whereas PPIs with weak coevolution are more fre- quently present at inter-cluster region. The findings indicate the close relationship between coevo- lution and modular organization of PINs, and may provide insights into evolution and modularity of cellular networks.
\fs24 \
\
}