{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 The *mirrortree*-related methodologies usually assume that the coevolutionary signal shared by a pair of proteins spreads over the tree of life. However, as we review in the implementation of phylogenetic profiles ([](#similarityofphylogeneticprofiles)), interacting proteins may strongly coevolve in some parts of the evolutionary tree while exhibiting a very weak signal in the rest of the species. Local similarities may be related with recent interactions, whereas global similarities in the phylogenetic tree may evidence a relationship occurring since ancestral species. Dealing with this asymmetric nature of coevolutionary signal is not trivial as it raises combinatorial problems.\
\
The *MatrixMatchMaker* (MMM) handle this problem by finding the largest common sub matrix compatible with certain evolutionary distance matrixes. This bottom-up approach seeks only for these sequences most strongly implicated on the coevolutionary signal. The matrixes therefore can include erroneously assigned sequences or paralogs since they most likely will be excluded in the final similarity. By playing with a tolerance threshold, the extent of the coevolutionary signal can be weighted. Proteins that are known to interact in humans showed a more strong signal than proteins that simply belong to the same biochemical pathway[#Tillier:2009ff]. Indeed, the human coevolutionary network reveals two topological partitions, one generally representing ancient eukaryotic functions, and the other, modern functions acquired during animal evolution. The latter is enriched in proteins involved in pathology-related functions as multicellularity, cell division or cell communication[#Bezginov:2013dv]. Further implementations provided considerable speedups on computational time[#Rodionov:2011ji].\
\
The mentioned problem of the paralogous sequences is also related with the optimization of protein similarity. In the *mirrortree* derived approaches the right mapping between the sequences of both candidates need to be known in order to calculate their tree similarity. However, when duplicated genes  are present, deciphering the corresponding ortholog in the other tree can be a challenging task. Under the hypothesis that correct mapping maximizes the similarity, several methods emerged to detect interacting partners within large families of duplicated genes[#Ramani:2003vk][Jothi:2006de][Izarzugaza:2006bw][Tillier:2006ke][Izarzugaza:2008ih][Hajirasouliha:2012in]. \
\
The problem of selecting an optimal reference set of sequences and their influence on interaction prediction remains not clear, though. Considering the increasing number of completely-sequenced genomes, the search for local evolutionary signals would not be enough as the problem growths exponentially with the number of sequenced organisms. In the future, selection of representative subsets of organisms might be valuable to predict type-specific interactions.\
}