{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Considering the aforementioned [limitations associated with the experimental identification of interacting partners](#limitationsofexperimentalmethods), the computational techniques introduced over the past years are a powerful alternative to suggest protein interactions. In particular, those methods based on co-evolution at the sequence level performed as the most promising ones, achieving genome-wide coverage and accuracies close to their experimental counterparts. However, some scientific and technical difficulties emerge as the factors influencing the co-evolution of interacting proteins remain unknown.\
\
One of the technical limitations that arise is the generation of trustable phylogenetic trees at a genomic scale. The intermediate steps, such as ortholog detection, sequence alignment, distance estimation or tree generation, need to be carefully considered, particularly in complex evolutionary scenarios such as HGT events[#Pazos:2005hl]. Future implementations with a reasonable tradeoff of computing time and accuracy might help build more reliable evolutionary models. Another unresolved problem is the measurement of the phylogenetic tree similarity. As the tree comparison requires unambiguous mapping of proteins at a species level, the \'93correct\'94 protein orthologs need to be identified. This task can be especially hard in eukaryotes in which the large number of paralogs and multi-domain proteins complicate the correct assignment[#Tillier:2009ff]. On the other hand, the correlation of protein distances calculated either from the MSAs[#Pazos:2001rm] or from the phylogenetic trees[#Pazos:2005hl] has proven particularly useful as a similarity metric. Nevertheless, some studies suggest that most complex schemas involving multidimensional spaces are needed in order to consider the multiple dependencies of protein distances[#Choi:2009gu].\
\
Another clear limitation to progress in this field is the need to correctly benchmark the predictive methods. The lack of adequate gold standards for positive and negative interactions conditions [the evaluation of the methods](#assessingpredictiveaccuracy) especially for large-scale predictions.  Blind tests with hidden gold standards would be the best way to accurately compare methods.\
 \
Unfortunately, the multi-step workflow necessary to perform a simple comparison between two proteins makes *mirrortree*-like methods difficult to apply by non-expert users. Tools used to automatically generate phylogenetic trees and interactively analyze their similarities would help the interpretation of the co-evolutionary process. Moreover, an interactive tool would allow to perform more detailed analysis such as analyzing the coevolution of a pair of proteins at different taxonomical levels. Besides, this framework would allow that highly specialized groups studying in parallel the co-evolution of their respective systems increase our understanding of the co-evolution at molecular level. \
\
The analysis of which set of organisms or taxonomic levels optimize the protein interaction prediction is also an [interesting question at a systematic level](#patternsoftaxonomicallylocalco-evolution). It is accepted that, even in the cases in which a tight co-evolution is demonstrated, the codependence between the interacting partners may not be constant over the whole tree of life. Thus, the selection of an optimal set of organisms may be critical for two reasons. On one hand, the reference set may act as a proxy for the interaction age: whereas ancient interactions would require complete trees, the more recent interactions may be detected with a small set of close organisms. On the other hand, the importance of the reference set is becoming mandatory as the number of fully sequenced genomes grow. With several thousands of genomes available, heuristic approaches may help improve the performance, avoiding a waste of computational time. Some of the more recent approaches have benefited from protein families for which the degree of sequence similarity has a wide but homogeneously distributed range[#Juan:2008sf]. However, little is known about the implications of this decision.\
\
An additional difficulty is related to the proper disentanglement of the clearly observable [phenomenon of co-evolution and the more elusive co-adaptation](#co-evolutionandco-adaptation)[#Juan:2008rz][Pazos:2008bq]. A number of approaches have removed the [unspecific similarity](#correctingbackgroundsimilarity) by excluding the speciation events or by using the context defined by all the possible interactions in the organism. Although these approaches have helped the understanding of the functional relationships between pairs of proteins, there is no evidence that real co-adaptation is being detected. Even in [protein interfaces](#structuralfeatures) where co-adaptation is expected to occur at a higher rate, contradictory results increase the uncertainty of the co-adaptative process. However, results restricted to structural features have been limited to the small set of available structures at that time limiting the true extent of this observations.\
\
Many of the problems addressed here are inherited from the vague definition of the co-evolutionary analysis. Considering the limitations described, the correlation coefficient used as score can hardly describe the co-evolution between a pair proteins as it ignores the contextual information. An example of this contextual information is the set of organisms used to generate the phylogenetic trees. The more genomes are experimentally sequenced, the more the presence of closely-related organisms increases sequence redundancy. This redundancy might artificially increase the correlation coefficient, negatively affecting the method\'92s performance. Besides, the pernicious influence of the redundant information is asymmetrically distributed along the tree of life. This phenomenon implies that, depending on the conservation of the pairs of proteins under study, sequences belonging to particularly redundant organisms may be considered for correlation or not, significantly changing the correlation coefficient. Thus, it is necessary to establish a estimator of the statistical confidence of the co-evolutionary process by considering the set of reference organisms and the gradient of conservation observed. So far, the significance of a given correlation coefficient has been evaluated based on the number of matched leaves between both trees. As more leaves and higher correlation, the co-evolution was considered more significant based on a null model of random correlations. However, we know that the phylogenetic trees cannot randomly change to acquire any possible distance between their leaves as the model assumes. The protein sequences can only change in a limited universe of possibilities constrained by their folding or function, among many other factors. Therefore, a revisited version of the current *P*-values, considering the space of possibilities of the sequences under study, would help the understanding of the co-evolutionary signal.}