{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red49\green46\blue109;}
\deftab708
\pard\pardeftab708\ri-198\sl360\slmult1\sa20

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Another clear limitation to the progress in this field is the need to systematically compare methods, particularly for large-scale protein interaction predictions. Blind tests with hidden gold standards will be the best way to facilitate the appropriate use of the methods.\
\
. In this definition co-evolution would be confined to the observation of concerted patterns of co-variation derived from MSAs, without implying reciprocal evolutionary events. By contrast, co-adaptation implies evolutionary reciprocity as the causal phenomenon behind the observed co-evolution. In this sense, co-adaptation would be referring, for example, to the compensatory changes required for maintaining residue or protein interactions. A more detailed discussion of the implications of co-adaptation for co-evolution can be found elsewhere\super 44,45\nosupersub .\
\
Another fundamental problem in the field is to differentiate the direct relationships from the indirect couplings caused by them, a problem tackled by a number of approaches\super 38,39,41,71\nosupersub . This disentanglement helps the functional interpretation of the relationships: direct couplings suggest physical interactions between residues or proteins, whereas pairings regarded as indirect couplings could indicate clusters of interacting residues, chains of residues participating in allosteric transmission, or (at the protein level) signaling pathways, protein complexes and functional clusters. The methodological advances have set the scene for the characterization of co-adaptive relationships that take place in complex molecular systems and that might only be truly understood at a network level, such as networks of residues participating in intra-molecular communication\super 54\nosupersub , or proteins intimately working together in complexes or functional pathways\super 71\nosupersub . It will also be important to consider the dynamic aspects of these interactions. This situation is reminiscent of ecological networks in which the interaction between species occurs in environmental conditions that change in space and time and where co-evolution will be a prevalent phenomenon\super 90\nosupersub . It seems that in the future, the field of molecular co-evolution might again have to look for inspiration in the study of species co-evolution.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f1 \cf0 \
#\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri-198\sl360\slmult1\sa20

\f0 \cf0 There are scientific and technical limitations that must be overcome by the methods. The quality of MSAs is obviously essential as they serve as the initial input to most of the methods.\

\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
\cf0 The main problem of mirrortree-like approaches is the need to construct good phylogenetic trees on a genomic scale. These are necessary to assess the similarity of all possible pairs in the search for those that are correlated. The automatic generation of reliable phylogenetic trees, with all the steps involved (orthologue detection, distance estima- tion, methods to generate the tree and so on) is not trivial. Thus, advances in generating reliable phylogenetic trees on a genomic scale will greatly improve this approach (Huerta-Cepas et al, 2007).
\fs30 \

\fs24 # Embo\
One factor that could provide some insight into the causes of any observed co-evolution is its specificity. One would intuitively relate specific co-evolution (particular of a given pair of proteins) to co-adaptation between these proteins, whereas broader nonspecific co-evolution (\'91diffuse co-evolution\'92) involving many proteins would be more easily related to the similarity in evolutionary rates. It is even possible to think of a gradient of specificity in the factors affecting the evolution of proteins, from highly specific factors affecting only a pair of proteins to highly unspecific factors (i.e., grown temperature, osmolarity, y) which affect the whole proteome (i.e. through the differential use of codons).\
Further progress in this area will require a better under- standing of the co-adaptation process at the molecular level, identifying the residues/positions in the protein sequences and structures, as well as the chain of events leading to compensation and their consequences for adaptation. It has been shown that inter-protein-correlated residues are closer than the average (Pazos et al, 1997; Yeang and Haussler, 2007), although co-evolution is not always evident at the protein interface itself (Hakes et al, 2007). Indeed, compensa- tion could occur even over relatively large distances through chains of interactions (i.e., allosteric effects).\
\
#regular\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\fs26 \cf0 Given the importance of protein\'96protein interactions in biological systems, understanding both their nature and evolution is important. Protein interaction interfaces tend to be under constraint to retain their function and so are more conserved than the majority of the protein surface (\cf2 Mintseris and Weng 2005\cf0 ). Nevertheless, when evolution is combined with duplication, there can be a large degree of change of binding specificity (\cf2 Hakes et al. 2007\cf0 ). This can lead to \'91\'91rewiring\'92\'92 of the protein interaction network and can therefore underlie functional innovation (\cf2 Berg et al. 2004\cf0 ; \cf2 Prachumwat and Li 2006\cf0 ; \cf2 Hakes et al. 2007\cf0 ; \cf2 Pinney et al. 2007\cf0 ; \cf2 Stumpf et al. 2007\cf0 ; \cf2 Evlampiev and Isambert 2008\cf0 ; \cf2 Presser et al. 2008\cf0 ). Coevolution allows adaptation of a binding site to its partner site. In parallel with this un- derstanding, correlated rates can be used for predicting protein\'96protein interactions (\cf2 Goh et al. 2000\cf0 ; \cf2 Pazos and Valencia 2001\cf0 ; \cf2 Goh and Cohen 2002\cf0 ; \cf2 Tan et al. 2004\cf0 ; \cf2 Pazos et al. 2005\cf0 ; \cf2 Sato et al. 2005\cf0 , \cf2 2006\cf0 ; \cf2 Jothi et al. 2006\cf0 ; \cf2 Kann et al. 2007\cf0 ; \cf2 Juan et al. 2008b\cf0 ).
\fs24 \

\fs26 It is clear that site-specific molecular coevolution not only exists but is also necessary to maintain biological func- tion. However, as for the most part, this involves no change, the signs of it are subtle, and as a consequence, hard to detect. In addition, there is a range of other correlations in protein sequences. These derive from a range of evolu- tionary processes that give rise to purifying selection. In addition protein interactions occur in three dimensions. Nonetheless both coevolution and correlations of evolution- ary rates have the potential for being useful in the analysis and detection of protein\'96protein interactions. However, if we are to use these correlations, and, importantly if we are to improve methodologies for detecting them, it is important that their different origins are appreciated.
\fs24 \
}