{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 In the similarity of phylogenetic trees, as well as in the similarity of phylogenetic profiles methodologies, we referred to the underlying cause of such similarity as coevolution. However, the meaning and implications of this concept at molecular level have not been addressed so far. Coevolution is a well-documented phenomenon involved in the organization of biological communities and a relevant component of the current evolutionary theory. All these ecological concepts and methodologies applied at species level can easily be extrapolated to the study of  interacting genes and proteins.\
\
Although the initial ideas of coevolution can be traced back to Darwin\'92s work (1862) on orchids and pollinators[#Darwin:1862vj], the term coevolution is attributed to Ehrlich and Raven (1964) studying the reciprocal evolutionary relationships of butterflies and their food plants[#Ehrlich:1964vm]. The most widely accepted definition was stated by Thompson as the \'93reciprocal evolutionary change in interacting species\'94[#Thompson:1994wl]. The importance of this definition lies in the reciprocity. The changes in one population imply changes in the selection pressure of a second population, and vice versa. Several ecological examples of coevolution have been described with the years including inter-specific competition for resources, relationships between parasites and their hosts, predators and preys or symbioses[#Moya:2008jv]. In some of these cases, morphological traits emerged in a correlated fashion trying to adapt to their interacting species[#Thompson:1994wl]. Hence, phylogenetic trees of coevolving species usually share some topological similarity, for instance in the case of the parasites and their hosts[#Stone:1986ux][Hafner:1988gb]. However, not every similarity should be understood as a direct influence between the interacting species. Indeed, as species evolve in response to a complex environment formed by multiple ecological factors and interactions, a background process related with the constant improvement of the fitness remains common for related species. As consequence, the term \'93diffuse co-evolution\'94 or \'93guild-coevolution\'94 was coined referring to the cases where the mutual influence of the interacting species can not be demonstrated[#Thompson:1994wl][Futuyma:1995tv]. The constant improvement in the fitness of species in an ever-changing environment was formulated as the \'93Red Queen Hypothesis\'94[#vanL:1973vc][VanValen:1977un][van1976red]. In the other hand, the term co-adaptation refers to the coordinated changes responsible of the mutual adaptation of species[#Dobzhansky:1950wt][Dobzhansky:1970ww][Wallace:1953vv][Wallace:1991vu]. \
\
All these concepts can easily be transferred to molecular level: a change in one locus alters the selective pressure of another locus, and this change is reciprocal[#Atchley:2000wy]. For proteins, these co-dependencies can be established within one or multiple sequences in a single molecule or between multiple proteins. Protein interactions is the typical example of coevolution in which dependencies between interacting partners take place between different molecules. As occurs at species level, one important question that arises is to what extent the observed coevolution is due to compensatory changes in the interacting proteins (co-adaptation) or to cofounded factors that affect both proteins in a similar degree. For instance, evolution of proteins in the same complex share some similarities as consequence of the mutual adjustments necessary to maintain the interaction. Furthermore, we can expect certain correlated changes to preserve co-expression, foldability and all other constraints that are imposed to preserve functional properties of interaction. Some of these factors are common even for proteins that not directly interact but share some functional relationship. The *mirrortree* technique is based on correlated changes in distances between sequences rather than on a direct measurement of any of the above mentioned factors. Therefore, it is important to keep in mind that the direct correlation of phylogenetic trees hardly distinguish which one of them is a dominating contributor to the signal.\
\
Different families of methodologies tried to exploit the coevolution marks printed on protein sequences. So far, we described methods based on full-sequence information, but some other interesting technics successfully look for pairs or even groups of coevolving residues. As the different positions in a given protein alignment are not completely independent, a concerted mutational behavior usually called \'91correlated mutations\'92 occurs between different residues within the same multiple sequence alignment (MSA)[#Fitch:1970wh]. Mentioned correlated mutations very often take place between entangled residues (i.e those in proximity, direct contact or acting together in catalytic/binding sites), in order to maintain protein stability, function or folding[#Gobel:1994ga][Shindyalov:1994uw][Taylor:1994wr][Neher:1994uw]. Moreover, correlated mutations in pairs of interacting proteins have been used as evidence of inter-protein contacts[#Pazos:1997bb][Tress:2005iv][Yeang:2007fl][Burger:2008jv][Weigt:2009ba][Schug:2009hm][Dago:2012dh]. In parallel, related methods look for large groups of residues that represent a particular pattern of conservation within particular protein subfamilies. Exploring their different but conserved evolution, the methods can suggest residues involved in more specific functions, as substrate specificity of a given enzyme[#Casari:1995wj][Lichtarge:1996ev]. However, residue-level methodologies suffer the consequences of the unspecific co-variations displayed between residues. The accumulation of these indirect couplings can make difficult to recognize the actual co-adapting positions.\
\
The coevolution, as well as the co-adaptation, are processes found at many levels of the biological systems. As coevolution acts as a consequence of some other dependencies, it might evidence some functional relationship at molecular level. However, we reviewed cases where cofounded factors prints similarities on sequences not necessary interacting. The ability to disentangle co-adaptation from unspecific coevolution will determine the success of the protein interaction predictions.}