{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab708
\pard\pardeftab708\ri-198\sl360\slmult1\sa20

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Tools at the residue level were inspired by the existence of inter-dependent changes in groups of variable amino acids, that was formulated for the first time by the covarion model\super 6
\b \nosupersub , 
\b0 and they typically use the multiple sequence alignment (MSAs) for a protein family of homologues to search for correlated mutations. Such correlated mutations are suggestive of compensatory changes that occur between entangled residues (e.g. those in proximity, direct contact or acting together in catalytic/binding sites) in order to maintain protein stability, function or folding\super 7-10\nosupersub .
\b  
\b0 Furthermore, extending these methods to search for correlated mutations between pairs of interacting proteins can identify sites of inter-protein interaction\super 11-17\nosupersub . In parallel, related methods have been developed to search for larger groups of residues that are co-conserved specifically within particular protein subfamilies. These methods can identify residues that define functional properties of that subfamily, such as substrate binding specificity of a given enzyme\super 18,19\nosupersub .\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f1 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab708\ri-198\sl360\slmult1\sa20

\f0 \cf0 An important obstacle in the detection of co-evolving positions is the apparent co-variation or indirect coupling that can occur when more than two positions show coordinated substitution patterns. The apparent co-variation between two positions is the consequence of the actual evolutionary interdependence of both positions with one or more additional positions. The aggregation of these indirect couplings can make difficult to recognize the actual interdependent positions. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f1 \cf0 \
It is tempting to think that mutations at a given position in a protein are not completely independent of mutations at other positions within the same protein. The most widely studied characteristic related to concerted mutational behaviour is the so-called \'91correlated mutations\'92 within multiple sequence alignments (MSAs).\
In MSAs, homologous proteins are represented in such a way that equivalent residues are placed in the same column. Hence, a column in an MSA contains a representation of amino-acid changes permitted during evolution at that position. As functional and structural requirements impose constraints on these changes, MSAs are a rich source of structure\'96function information. In some cases, it is possible to observe concerted mutations at two positions (columns) in MSAs, the amino-acid changes in one position being related to those in the other.\
Some time ago, a weak but consistent relationship was found between this correlated mutational behaviour and spatial proximity (Go\uc0\u32 \u776 bel et al, 1994; Olmea and Valencia, 1997). One hypothesis to explain such relation- ships states that destabilizing changes in one position can be evolutionarily fixed if they are \'91accommodated\'92 or \'91compen- sated\'92 by a modification nearby. Co-evolution between residues in the same proximity seems to have an important function in protein structure and function (Shim Choi et al, 2005; Socolich et al, 2005). Nevertheless, the relationship between correlated mutations (evident in MSAs) and compensatory changes (a possible explanation for these observations) has remained largely elusive. In practice, a number of variations in the specific methods to predict physical proximity based on the detection of correlations have been implemented with moderate success (see Fodor and Aldrich, 2004; Shackelford and Karplus, 2007 for systematic comparisons of methods).\
Various arguments can be used to explain the difficulties in detecting signs of compensatory mutations in MSAs. For ex- ample, the presence of binding sites and active sites imposes a strong constraint on the variability of sequences that is difficult to separate from the purely structural one. The conservation of apolar residues in the protein core and the constraints imposed during folding tend to occlude possible signs of correlated changes. Furthermore, the relationship between correlated changes and physical proximity is complicated by the depen- dence between distant residues that cooperate in signal trans- mission processes (e.g. induced fit movements).\
In any case, it is important to take into account that compensation can be achieved by cooperation between rela- tively close sets of residues organized into local structures without the need of direct physical contact between all the participating residues. This type of local compensation fits well with the co-variation model (Fitch, 1971; Shindyalov et al, 1994; Susko et al, 2002; Wang et al, 2007). In this model, the induction of mutations can be explained in terms of the increased local capacity to accept mutations after the introduction of an initial isolated change, with no need of direct interactions between the mutated residues.\
The relationship between correlated mutations and spatial proximity (not always direct contact) has not only been found between residues in the same protein but also between residues in different proteins (Pazos et al, 1997; Yeang and Haussler, 2007; Burger and van Nimwegen, 2008). The hypo- thesis invoked to explain these inter-protein correlations is the same as that for the intra-protein ones, and involves co- adaptation between interacting proteins at the residue level. In some cases, it has been shown experimentally that compensatory changes at interfaces can indeed recover the stability of complexes lost due to an earlier mutation (Mateu and Fersht, 1999; del Alamo and Mateu, 2005). Correlated inter-protein changes seem to be more evident in obligate complexes, in which the two proteins must constantly inter- act to perform their biological function (Mintseris and Weng, 2005). Signs of inter-protein correlation can be used in some cases as constraints to select the arrangement of two inter- acting proteins or protein domains (Pazos et al, 1997), or to guide protein docking experiments (Tress et al, 2005), even though the corresponding residues might not enter in direct physical contact (Halperin et al, 2006). Moreover, inter- protein correlated pairs can also be used to look for inter- action partners (Pazos and Valencia, 2002).\
____________________________________________________\
\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri-198\sl360\slmult1\sa20

\f0 \cf0 Substantial effort has been invested in studying the co-evolution of pairs of positions in MSAs of protein families (residue co-evolution). These pairs of co-evolving positions were often found to correspond to spatially proximal residues in the protein structure, and such putative inter-residue contacts have aided protein structure prediction
\b  
\b0 (Box1). Recent methodological developments have improved the accuracy of protein contact prediction by disentangling the direct pairwise couplings from the background network of coordinately mutating positions. Furthermore, co-evolution between residues in different proteins has been used as predictors of the interacting surfaces (protein interfaces) in protein complexes as well as in the search for interacting partners of a given protein, as discussed later in the \'93Convergence of residue- and protein-based methods\'94 section.\
\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri-198\sl360\slmult1\sa20

\i\b \cf0 Detecting correlated amino acid changes in pairs of positions\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri-198\sl360\slmult1\sa20

\i0\b0 \cf0 Residue co-evolution was originally assessed through detecting pairs of positions (two columns of the MSA) that have interdependent amino acid frequencies\super 23\nosupersub  or similar patterns of amino acid substitutions\super 7,9,10\nosupersub .
\b  
\b0 In particular, these substitution patterns can be built according to a pre-calculated amino acid substitution matrix, and their similarity assessed by a linear correlation. This approach is often called the McLachlan-Based Substitution Correlation (McBASC). This method has been extensively tested and compared with newer methods, and shows a small but significant capability to recover pairs of positions in physical contact\super 24\nosupersub  and still serves as a baseline to benchmark the performance of new methods\super 25\nosupersub .\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri-198\sl360\slmult1
\cf0 \
Estimation of inter-position co-variation using substitution matrices imposes a demanding scenario for highly variable positions to be assigned as co-varying. Consequently, McBASC tends to preferentially detect co-evolving positions that are relatively well conserved during evolution\super 24\nosupersub . This approach provides a rough estimate of the magnitude of the correlation between positions without assuming a specific compensatory biochemical nature. The initial proposal lacked a defined confidence threshold to extrapolate between cases. In addition, it did not address problems associated with the alignment quality, such as the inclusion of divergent or redundant sequences\super 26\nosupersub . Inspired by this approach, Coevolution Analysis using Protein Sequences (CAPS)\super 27\nosupersub  dampens the influence of background phylogenetic divergence by requiring the detected correlations to still be detected after particular clades are removed from the MSA. It also corrects the amino acid substitution matrix so as to consider the actual divergence among the sequences. Due to the high computational demands of CAPS, this methodology has been tested is specific cases but not yet in a large-scale dataset.\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri-198\sl360\slmult1\sa20
\cf0 \
Mutual information (MI) has been also used to detect co-varying positions. While correlation-based methods explore inter-sequence amino acid substitutions, mutual information considers the distribution of each amino acid in the different sequences for a position. In fact, mutual information quantifies whether the presence of an amino acid in a given sequence for a position is a \'91good prediction\'92 of the presence of any given amino acid in the same sequence for a second position\super 23\nosupersub . In this sense, mutual information does not account for which particular amino acids are present in the same sequences in both positions, but relies in the statistical significance of the observed co-variations. Therefore, the different amino acids are treated as different symbols, not related by similarity relationships, and the magnitude of the biochemical changes is not taken into account when assessing similarity of mutational patterns. The initial formulations of this approach were vulnerable to large variations in sequence conservations in the MSAs\super 24\nosupersub  as well as to the effect of the phylogenetic background (see above). These problems have been addressed in subsequent versions\super 25,28,29\nosupersub  that improved contact prediction performance\super 25\nosupersub  (represented as 
\i Mutual Information corrected
\i0  in Fig. 2), providing important information for understanding protein structures\super 30\nosupersub .\
\
McBASC and MI approaches are probably the most commonly used to study residue co-evolution, although many others have been developed over recent years, such as methods addressing the similarities of vectors representing the presence or absence of the 20 different amino acids in each position of the MSAs\super 31,32\nosupersub . Other methods use phylogenetic approaches to start from a reconstructed ancestral state and then to characterize the sequence of evolutionary changes that have occurred over time in order to detect patterns of simultaneous substitution\super 13,33,34
\b \nosupersub  
\b0 or to explicitly contrast independent evolution and co-evolution models\super 35,36\nosupersub . In this case, the use of an enhanced continuous-time Markov process model for sequence co-evolution represented an important step forward\super 13\nosupersub . These approaches are suitable for small-scale studies of co-evolution in small protein families, but the evaluation of their performance in large-scale studies remains excessively demanding in computational terms.\
\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri-198\sl360\slmult1\sa20

\i\b \cf0 Disentangling directly coupled residues from the network of indirectly correlated positions.\
\pard\pardeftab708\ri-198\sl360\slmult1\sa20

\i0\b0 \cf0 An important obstacle in the detection of co-evolving positions is the apparent co-variation or indirect coupling that can occur when more than two positions show coordinated substitution patterns. The apparent co-variation between two positions is the consequence of the actual evolutionary interdependence of both positions with one or more additional positions. The aggregation of these indirect couplings can make difficult to recognize the actual interdependent positions. \
\
Approaches are therefore needed to distinguish direct from indirect interactions. Such methods use varied methodologies but all consider that a set of direct pairwise couplings between positions seeds a larger set of indirectly coupled positions to form the whole network of coordinately mutating positions. A first basic model was proposed by Lapedes 
\i et al.
\i0 \super 37\nosupersub , who assumed that indirect couplings do not represent evolutionary interdependence and can be considered uninformative pairwise co-variations. This first approach used a Monte Carlo algorithm to infer the simplest probabilistic model able to account for the whole network of co-variations in a simulated scenario. The importance of this first approach remained unacknowledged until a number of recent publications revisited the problem with different strategies\super 15,38,39\nosupersub . Direct Coupling Analysis (DCA)\super 15-17,38\nosupersub  and Protein Sparse Inverse Covariance (PSICOV)\super 39\nosupersub  establish a global probabilistic model of the MSA in terms of position-specific variability and inter-position coupling\super 38,39\nosupersub . Heuristic approaches are used to resolve the model, obtaining the estimated values of direct inter-position couplings that, in the case of DCA, can be finally transformed into a mutual information-based formulation. It is interesting that a related approach was also useful to perform sequence homology searches\super 40\nosupersub .\
Alternatively, Burger and van Nimwegen\'92s method uses a Bayesian network model that includes pairwise conditional dependencies\super 41\nosupersub , while Regularized Multinomial Regression-based Correlated Mutations (RMRCM)\super 42\nosupersub  takes into account the whole network of dependencies and not only the individual pairwise dependencies. \
\
It is still too early to fully compare these methodologies but they represent an important advance in the field. For MSAs with more than 1,000 sequences, DCA and PSICOV seem to be superior to Burger and van Nimwegen\'92s method\super 38,39\nosupersub . In fact, some of these methods are able to predict contacts between residues far apart in the linear sequence with sufficient accuracy as to be useful for guiding 
\i in silico
\i0  folding experiments (Box1). Nevertheless such clear improvements are only obtained for protein families with thousands of members\super 43\nosupersub . Direct coupling approaches are expected to remove unspecific influences such as the previously discussed phylogenetic background\super 44,45\nosupersub . This interesting possibility needs further investigation. It will be interesting to see how the application of these new methods progresses in the hands of the scientific community, since the results in the recent CASP (http://www.predictioncenter.org/casp10/index.cgi) competition remain largely inconclusive.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f1 \cf0 \
\
______________________________________________________}