{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 This thesis can be divided into the following major objectives:\
\
1. *Developing the Mirrortree web server to study the co-evolution of protein families*.\
This tool will provide a user-friendly interface allowing non-expert users to perform tree-tree comparisons in order to look for protein-protein interactions or other functional relationships. The tool must combine the automatic generation of phylogenetic trees with a proper visualizer where further exploration of the similarities can be carried out. Additional options for the more advanced users need to be taken into account.\
\
2. *Incorporating information on predicted solvent accessibility*.\
The effect of including predicted structural features such as predicted solvent accessibility has not yet been analyzed yet. Here, we will asses for the first time the effect of including this information in the results and the range of applicability of three co-evolution-based methods. A proper comparison taking into account the different methods and the different kinds of interactions may help to get more insight on the co-evolutionary processes occurring on protein interactions. \
\
3. *Studying the effect of the reference set of organisms used for building the trees on the performance of the methods*.\
The organisms used as reference on the different *mirrortree*-like methodologies may have a direct implication on the prediction of protein interactions. In order to asseses which are the optimal organisms for each method and type of interaction, a number of reference sets based on different taxonomical properties need to be properly benchmarked, so as to end up in a number of recipes on which organisms are adequate for each situation formulated in taxonomic terms.\
\
4. *Predicting protein interactions on the basis of an evolutionary consistent model*.\
Considering the impact of the growing number of available genomes on the performance of the co-evolution-based prediction of protein-protein interaction, methods dealing with large numbers of redundant genomes need to be developed. Hence, we will work on a new methodology based on the calculation of statistically consistent *P*-values associated to the correlation scores. To calculate these *P*-values a null evolutionary model will be created based on the permutations of the phylogenetic trees under study.}