{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\fs32 \cf0 Methods
\fs24 \
We aim to evaluate the effect of the incorporation of informa- tion on predicted solvent accessibility in the performance of three mirrortree-related methods in predicting interactions of different nature. This has been done by generating, for all proteins in the model organism E. coli, different sets of phylogenetic trees constructed using (i) the whole protein and (ii) only the protein residues above certain thresholds of predicted accessibility, and evaluating the performance of the methods based on these different trees. In order to evaluate the performance we used different datasets of protein interactions representing interactions of different nature (e.g. physical and functional). The process is illustrated in Fig. 1, and details are given below.\
\
******\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\fs18 \cf0 Fig. 1 Scheme of the methodology. \
In order to evaluate the co-evolution between proteins R and S based on their residues fulfilling a given predicted accessibility criterion, the first step is to look for their orthologs in a set of 116 fully sequenced genomes. For each protein, a multiple sequence alignment is generated with these orthologs, which will serve as a basis for the generation of the trees. In parallel, another multiple alignment is generated for the same protein based on the homologs found in the whole Uniprot database (hence including orthologs and paralogs). This second alignment will be used for the prediction of solvent accessibility. A tree is generated based on the first alignment but using only the positions with a given predicted accessibility criterion. The trees generated in this way are the input for the three methods for evaluating co- evolution.
\fs24 \
}