{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
\
\
Considering the impact of the growing number of available genomes on the performance of coevolution-based protein-protein interaction prediction, methods dealing with large numbers of redundant genomes need to be developed. Hence, we will work on a new methodology based on the calculation of statistically consistent *P*-values. To calculate this *P*-values a null evolutionary model is created as consequence of the permutations of the phylogenetic trees under study. This methodology will provide reliable results, independently of the number of organisms under study or the conservation of the interacting proteins.\
\
Many of the problems addressed here are inherited from the vague definition of the co-evolutionary analysis. Considering the limitations described, the correlation coefficient used as score can hardly describe the co-evolution between a pair proteins as it ignores the contextual information. An example of this contextual information is the set of organisms used to generate the phylogenetic trees. The more genomes are experimentally sequenced, the more the presence of closely-related organisms increases sequence redundancy. This redundancy might artificially increase the correlation coefficient, negatively affecting the method\'92s performance. Besides, the pernicious influence of the redundant information is asymmetrically distributed along the tree of life. This phenomenon implies that, depending on the conservation of the pairs of proteins under study, sequences belonging to particularly redundant organisms may be considered for correlation or not, significantly changing the correlation coefficient. Thus, it is necessary to establish a estimator of the statistical confidence of the co-evolutionary process by considering the set of reference organisms and the gradient of conservation observed. So far, the significance of a given correlation coefficient has been evaluated based on the number of matched leaves between both trees. As more leaves and higher correlation, the co-evolution was considered more significant based on a null model of random correlations. However, we know that the phylogenetic trees cannot randomly change to acquire any possible distance between their leaves as the model assumes. The protein sequences can only change in a limited universe of possibilities constrained by their folding or function, among many other factors. Therefore, a revisited version of the current *P*-values, considering the space of possibilities of the sequences under study, would help the understanding of the co-evolutionary signal.}