{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 The process can be initiated from 2 protein sequences, 2 MSAs or 2 phylogenetic trees uploaded by the user through a web interface. Whereas the protein sequences start the workflow from the beginning, the MSAs and the phylogenetic trees are introduced in some intermediate steps of the [pipeline](#mtserverpipeline.pdf). Any of those inputs must fulfill some requirements on information content and format, conveniently explained on the server\'92s tutorial.\
\
The Mirrortree server workflow is shown in [](#mtserverpipeline.pdf). When the user submits a pair of sequences, the first step is to reconstruct the protein families by finding all the protein orthologs that can be unambiguously related with the provided sequences. In order to do so, the input sequences are aligned using BLAST[#Altschul:1997tl] against an updated version of the database of completely annotated genomes Integr8[#Kersey:2005df]. The ranked aligned sequences are filtered by % identity, % coverage and *E*-value, to get a list of candidate homologs. By default, the filtering parameters are set on \\\\( \\ge30
\f1\fs26 \cf2 \\%
\f0\fs28 \cf0 \\\\), \\\\(\\ge60
\f1\fs26 \cf2 \\%
\f0\fs28 \cf0 \\\\) and \\\\(\\le1\\times10^\{-5\}\\\\), respectively, but advanced users can modify them during the job submission. The resulting lists of candidate homologs are aligned using MUSCLE[#Edgar:2004yq]. To avoid server overload, this step may be delegated to a computer cluster in periods of high computing demand. From that moment on, pairwise sequence identities are calculated ignoring positions with more than 90% of gaps, in order to avoid problems with poorly aligned sequences. By using this modification, sequences with less than 30% of identity with the submitted sequence are removed from the MSAs. Finally, to gather a single putative ortholog for each organism, the sequences with the highest identity percentage with the master are chosen among the different paralogs within each organism. The two resulting MSAs have a single sequence for each organism and they may be replaced by a pair of equivalent MSAs supplied by the user ([](#mtserverpipeline.pdf)). A pair of phylogenetic trees is modeled from these alignments, with the neighbor-joining algorithm implemented in ClustalW[#Chenna:2003vn], using bootstrap and excluding the gaps. Both trees can also be replaced by a pair of correctly labeled trees provided by the user.}