{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 We mapped the 214 organisms under study using the hierarchy of the NCBI taxonomic tree[#Benson:2009hs]. This resource classifies the organisms in the public sequence databases in a taxonomic hierarchy, ignoring the quantitative information on phylogenetic distances between them. Since the whole tree includes information on thousands of prokaryotic taxa, we simplified the tree to represent the taxonomic relationships between the 214 Archaea and Eubacteria of interest. We sampled this subtree, in order to obtain subsets of organisms consistent with the following taxonomic criteria:\
\
* *Nearest*. Starting from *E. coli K12*, we successively take all the organisms belonging to a particular taxa in the path from this reference organism to the root ([](#dorotaworkflow.pdf)). This way, \'93nearest 1\'94 contains the *E. coli* strains (4 organisms), \'93nearest 2\'94 includes the Enterobacteriaceae family (21 organisms), and so on, up to \'93nearest 6\'94, which represents the Bacteria superkingdom (195 organisms); and \'93nearest 7\'94 the whole dataset (214 organisms). This sampling intends to evaluate the effect of considering species close to the reference organism versus more complete representations of the tree of life. Moreover, this approach assesses the effect of using redundant taxa, such as strains of the same organism, in the results of protein interaction prediction. \
\
* *Level*. This sampling tries to get informative representations of the whole taxonomic tree at different levels of depth. The tree is successively cut at each taxonomic level (superkingdom, phylum,\'85) of the hierarchy and one organism is selected for each of the taxa defined by that level ([](#dorotaworkflow.pdf)). The criterion for selecting an organism within a taxa is to use that with the highest number of proteins in its genome, in order to optimize the number of possible orthologs in the subsequent steps of the process. As consequence, \'93level 1\'94 contains 2 organisms (one eubacteria and one archaea) and \'93level 2\'94 contains 16 organisms, one for each phylum. This way, \'93level 9\'94 represents the whole dataset. Alternatively to the \'93nearest\'94 approach, here we present a gradient of sequence redundancies, going from small number of non-redundant sequences in the first level, to the whole redundant dataset in the last level. This design is intended to evaluate the effect of sampling the taxonomy homogeneously at different levels of granularity.\
\
* *Referent set*. For comparative purposes, we included the set of genomes used by Juan et al.[#Juan:2008sf]. This set, which includes 116 genomes, was obtained selecting only one strain for each species. This set intends to have a representation of the whole tree of life but avoiding the biases introduced by very close genomes in the interaction predictions. The resulting set is very similar to our \'93level 5\'94 (97 organisms).\
\
In order to assure a reliable estimation, protein interaction prediction usually requires a minimum of 15 organisms in common between the phylogenetic trees under study. For that reason, some of the subsets are never used in practice. The lists of organisms in the final 12 subsets used, as well as a representation of their taxonomic distributions are shown in the [](#appendixdorota).}