{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 In order to evaluate the performance of the tree-similarity based methods for predicting protein interactions, both positive and negative datasets of interactions are required for the organism of interest. Here, we used three different gold standard datasets containing different types of protein interactions for the model organism *E. coli*:\
\
* Binary physical direct interactions obtained from MPIDB[#Goll:2008hp]. This database contains binary physical interactions manually curated from the literature or imported from other databases. This version of the database contains 2,103 binary interactions between 1,538 different *E. coli* proteins. This dataset will be referred to as \'93Binary physical\'94.\
\
* Physical interactions inferred by co-presence in the same macromolecular complexes. This physical interactions may be direct or involving some intermediate proteins. The protein complexes are experimentally determined and extracted from the EcoCyc databases[#Keseler:2005ys]. The set includes 1,354 pairs between 591 proteins. This dataset will be referred to as \'93Complexes\'94.\
\
* Functional interactions inferred as co-presence in the same metabolic pathways. Interaction evidence are also retrieved from the EcoCyc[#Keseler:2005ys]. This dataset comprises 4,491 pairs between 719 proteins. This dataset will be referred to as \'93Pathways\'94.\
\
A summary of the characteristics of these datasets can be found in [](#proteininteractiondatasets). Whereas the last two resources were previously used on interaction validation by Juan et al.[#Juan:2008sf], the \'93Binary physical\'94 dataset provides some additional information, as it only contains curated direct physical interactions. For each positive dataset, the corresponding negative set was generated using all the pairwise combinations between the proteins involved in some positive pair, excluding those already reported as interacting.\
\
Dataset		 |  Pairs                	         | Proteins           | Database  | Reference\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f1\fs26 \cf0  -------------------- | :----------------------------: | :-------------------: | :-----------: | :-----------: |\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Binary physical  | 2,103		        | 1,538                 | MPIDB    | [#Goll:2008hp]\
Complexes         | 1,354                          | 591                    | EcoCyc     | [#Keseler:2005ys]\
Pathways            | 4,491		        | 719                    | EcoCyc     | [#Keseler:2005ys]\
[Protein interaction datasets]}