{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\fs26 \cf0 The mirrortree method (MT) evaluates the co-evolu- tion between two proteins by calculating the linear cor- relation coefficient between their corresponding distance matrices. A minimum of 15 species in common between their trees is required for evaluating a given pair. Only correlation values supported by a (tabulated) P-value of 10E-5 or lower are considered.
\fs24 \

\fs26 A matrix containing the significant pair-wise tree cor- relations (P-value \uc0\u8804  10E-5) for all pairs of proteins within the genome of E coli is used as input for the pro- file-correlation method (PC). A row (or column) in this matrix (co-evolutionary profile) contains the correlations between a given protein and all the others in the gen- ome, and can be considered as a representation of the co-evolutionary context for that protein. The profile-cor- relation method re-assesses the co-evolution between two proteins by calculating the linear correlation between their respective co-evolutionary profiles. Finally, the context-mirror method (CM) assesses the influence of third proteins in a given co-evolutionary signal observed for two proteins using a partial correlation cri- terion. This allows separating specific co-evolution (par- ticular to a given pair of proteins) from general co- evolutionary trends involving many proteins. So this method produces results at different \'93levels\'94 of
\fs24  
\fs26 specificity. See [13] for a more detailed description of these methodologies.}