{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 For each phylogenetic tree based on each of the 12 organism sets, a matrix of cophenetic distances is calculated by adding the branch lengths separating the corresponding leaves. These distance matrices served as input for the three co-evolution-based predictors of protein-protein interactions under study.\
\
[MT methodology](#mirrortree) was applied to the distance matrices obtained using the different selection of organisms. Every pairwise comparison was performed excluding protein pairs with less than 15 organisms in common or a *P*-value \\\\(>1\\times10^\{-5\}\\\\). With the matrix of pairwise correlation coefficients fulfilling these thresholds, [PC](#profile-correlation) was calculated using the same parameters. Finally, the co-evolutionary profiles were compared under the [CM methodology](#context-mirror), using a number of different third proteins for partial correlation calculation.\
\
Considering a given subset of organisms, all pairs of proteins in the *E. coli* genome fulfilling the aforementioned requirements were ranked using the scores for the three methods. We applied [ROC analysis](#performanceevaluation) to these lists to assess the capacity of the methods to separate positives and negatives on the basis of [three different types of interactions](#goldstandards): binary physical, co-membership in the same macromolecular complex or co-presence in the same metabolic pathway. Additionally, we evaluated the ability of the different predictors to recover the maximum number of positives with the best possible accuracy. For the different combinations of datasets, we quantified this tradeoff using the [\'93F-measure\'94](#performanceevaluation). The maximum \'93F-measure\'94 was used to compare the different predictions assuming that, at this cutoff, the predictor displays its optimal performance.}