{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Evaluation\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\fs26 \cf0 For each pair of proteins in the E coli genome fulfilling the requirements mentioned above, we have the scores of the three methods (mirrortree, profile correlation and context-mirror) based on a given sampled subset of organisms. As commented above, for context-mirror the results are split in different levels of co-evolutionary specificity. In addition, we know whether that pair represents a true interaction or functional relationship according with the datasets described earlier. So, for each combination method/dataset/subset of organisms we have a large list of protein pairs sorted by the score of the method, being each pair labeled as \'93positive\'94 (the two proteins interact according with the dataset) or \'93negative\'94 (the two proteins are assumed not to interact).
\fs24 \

\fs26 We apply \'93receiver operating characteristic\'94 analysis (ROC) [22] to these lists to assess the capacity of the method to separate the positives from the negatives. For each of these lists, the ROC analysis generates a plot of \'93true positives rate\'94 (TPR) against \'93false positives rate\'94 (FPR) when varying the classification threshold (score of the method). Curves above the diagonal in this plot represent methods with some discriminative power, being this discriminative capacity better as the curve gets closer to the top-left corner of the plot. Due to the requirement of 15 or more organisms in common in order to evaluate a given pair, the same method applied to the same interaction dataset can produce lists with very different number of pairs (both negatives and posi- tives) when based on different subsets of organisms (trees with different number of leaves). In order to com- pare the ROC curves in these cases, FPR\'92s and TPR\'92s are calculated respect to the total number of pairs (posi- tives and negatives) in the original dataset, and not respect to the number of pairs rendered by a given sub- set of organisms. Moreover, defined in this way, these ROC curves give an idea not only on the ability of the method to separate positives and negatives, but also on its range of applicability and coverage: longer curves represent methods that can be applied to (can generate predictions for) a large number of pairs, and the other way around. So, the ROC curves are generated by cut- ting the sorted list of scores at different thresholds and plotting the resulting TPR\'92s against FPR\'92s calculated as
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b\fs26 \cf0 TPR = Tp/P = sensitivity FPR = Fp/N = 1 - specificity
\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\fs26 \cf0 where Tp, Fp and Tn are the true positives, false posi- tives and true negatives obtained at a given threshold,
\fs24  
\fs26 and P and N the total number of positive and negative pairs for that interaction dataset (irrespective of whether the method could be applied for them with that particu- lar set of organisms or not). Note that these parameters can also be interpreted in terms of \'93sensitivity\'94 and \'93specificity\'94 as indicated in the formula above.
\fs24 \

\fs26 Additionally, we also evaluated the results in terms of \'93precision\'94, \'93recall\'94 (see Results).
\fs24 \
}