{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 For comparative purposes, we looked for protein orthologs of *E. coli* proteins in a set of 116 fully sequenced organisms previously studied by Juan et al.[#Juan:2008sf]. In order to avoid sequence redundancy, this set of prokaryotic genomes was designed based on the available genomes at that time, but containing only one strain per species. For each *E. coli* protein, we searched for ortholog sequences using a BLAST \'93Best Bi-directional Hit\'94 (BBH) criterion, with an *E*-value cut-off of \\\\(1\\times10^\{-5\}\\\\) and requiring an alignment coverage of 70%. BBH is a standard method to assign orthology to two proteins of two different genomes when they are the best BLAST match of each other in the other genome. The resulting lists of ortholog sequences obtained by BBH were aligned using MUSLCE[#Edgar:2004yq] with the default parameters. Using the previously calculated PROF predictions, we mapped the accessibility information on this MSA of orthologs using the *E. coli* sequence as reference. Different sub-alignments of orthologs were generated including the positions fulfilling the following accessibility criteria:\
\
* eRIA0. Positions predicted as accessible with any value of \'93reliability\'94.\
\
* eRIA3. Positions predicted as accessible with reliability \\\\(>3\\\\).\
\
* pACC2. Positions with a predicted solvent accessible surface \\\\(>2\\angstrom^\{2\}\\\\).\
\
* pACC12. Positions with a predicted solvent accessible surface \\\\(>12\\angstrom^\{2\}\\\\).\
\
* pACC50. Positions with a predicted solvent accessible surface \\\\(>50\\angstrom^\{2\}\\\\).\
\
* ALL. No filtering is applied and thus the phylogenetic trees are based on all the positions in the alignment. \
\
For the MSAs in these six different datasets, phylogenetic trees were created using the neighbor-joining algorithm implemented in ClustalW[#Larkin:2007hz], excluding gaps for the distance calculation.\
}