{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \
The original *mirrortree* (MT) approach[#Pazos:2001rm] calculates the similarity between two phylogenetic trees by calculating the linear correlation coefficient between the corresponding values in the two distances matrixesXXX. A pair of phylogenetic trees need to have at least 15 species in common to be considered. Pairs with more than 15 organisms in common need to be supported by a tabulated *p-value* lower than 1e-4 to be considered for evaluation.\
\
  The profile-correlation (PC) method[#Juan:2008sf] takes as input the *mirrortree* correlation coefficients fulfilling aforementioned conditions, for all pairs of proteins in a given organism. This coevolutionary network can be represented as a squared matrix the size of the *E. coli* proteome with missing values for those pairs with not significant number of organisms or p-value. A row, or a column, in this matrix, known as \'93coevolutionary profile\'94, represents the coevolutionary behavior of a protein with the rest of the proteome. In PC method, the similarity between a pair of proteins is re-assesed as the correlation between their corresponding coevolutionary profiles, with the same significance thresholds used for the original *mirrortree*. The general idea is that proteins whose trees tend to be behave similarly with the rest of the trees in the organism, will most likely share function.\
\
The context-mirror (CM) method[#Juan:2008sf] removes the background similarity between a pair of coevolutionary profiles by calculating their partial correlation considering a third protein. In this way, it is possible to disentangle the signal shared by a pair of coevolutionary profiles from the unspecific similarity represented by the third protein. Since the third protein could be any other protein in the organism, the results are ordered in different levels of specificity, starting from the most similar coevolutionary profile with the pair of profiles under study.\
\
***************\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f1\fs24 \cf0 For each combination of a method, an input set of trees (generated from residues of different predicted accessibility) and an interaction dataset we obtain a list of protein pairs, sorted by the score of the corresponding method. Each pair can be labelled as positive or negative depending on whether it is a reported interaction in that particular dataset or not. A combination method-set of trees will be better for predicting interactions (for that particular set of interaction evidences) as the positives tend to cluster at the top of these sorted lists (associated to high scores) and the other way around for the negatives.\
The Area Under the ROC Curve (AUC) was calculated for these lists, as a global estimator of the accuracy and coverage of the corresponding predictions. The ROC (\'91\'91receiver operating characteristic\'92\'92) analysis
\fs16 \up10 30 
\fs24 \up0 generates a plot of \'91\'91true positives rate\'92\'92 (TPR) against \'91\'91false positives rate\'92\'92 (FPR) when varying the classification threshold (score of the method). Curves above the diagonal in this plot represent methods with some discri- minative power, being this discriminative capacity better as the curve gets closer to the top-left corner of the plot. Consequently, areas under these curves range from 0.5 (random classifier, diagonal in the plot, positives and negatives uniformly distributed through the list) to 1.0 (perfect classifier, all positives at the top of the list). ROC analysis was performed with the ROCR library of the R statistical package (http://www.r-project.org).\
}