{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 In this study, we varied the set of organisms serving as reference to find ortholog sequences. For each of the 12 different sets of organisms, we generated phylogenetic trees for every *E. coli* protein. In order to do so, we look for protein orthologs in the corresponding list of sampled proteomes using \'93BLAST best bi-directional hit\'94 criterion. Putative orthologs required *E*-value cutoff of \\\\(1\\times10^\{-5\}\\\\) and an alignment coverage of 70% to be considered for analysis. The set of resulting sequences are then aligned using MUSCLE[#Edgar:2004yq] with the default parameters. The phylogenetic trees are finally created by the neighbor-joining algorithm implemented in ClustalW[#Larkin:2007hz], excluding the gaps for the distance calculations.\
\
******\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\f1\fs24 \cf0 We used a set of 116 fully sequenced organisms previously used in other works
\fs16 \up10 11,26 
\fs24 \up0 to look for orthologs of E. coli proteins and construct the trees based on them. This set does not contain very similar organisms, thus avoiding phylogenetic redundancy. We used the \'91\'91BLAST best bi-directional hit\'92\'92 criterion for detecting the ortholog of a given E. coli protein in each genome, with an E-value cut-off of 1 
\f2 \uc0\u56319 \u56320 
\f1  10
\f2\fs16 \up10 \uc0\u56319 \u56321 
\f1 \up10 5
\fs24 \up0 , and requiring an alignment coverage of 70%. \
All orthologs found for this E. coli protein were aligned with MUSCLE
\fs16 \up10 23 
\fs24 \up0 using the default parameters of this program. Then, a phylogenetic tree was generated from this alignment using the neighbor-joining algorithm implemented in ClustalW,
\fs16 \up10 27 
\fs24 \up0 excluding the gaps for the distance calculation.\
***************\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 For comparative purposes, we looked for protein orthologs of *E. coli* proteins in a set of 116 fully sequenced organisms previously studied by Juan *et al.*[#Juan:2008sf]. In order to avoid sequence redundancy, this set of prokaryotic genomes was designed based on the current available genomes, but containing only one strain per organism. For each *E. coli* protein, we searched for ortholog sequences using \'93BLAST best bi-directional hit\'94 criterion, with an *E*-value cut-off of \\\\(1\\times10^\{-5\}\\\\) and requiring an alignment coverage of 70%. Then, the resulting lists of ortholog sequences were aligned using MUSLCE[#Edgar:2004yq] with the default parameters. Using the previously calculated PROF predictions, we mapped the accessibility information on the MSAs using the *E. coli* sequence as reference. In order to filter the positions in the alignment based on different accessibility criteria, we subset the MSA\'92s positions by the following rules:\
}