{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Original [*mirrortree*](#mirrortree) and [*p-mirrortree*](#pmirrortree) were applied for each of the different sets of distance matrices. The matrices contained the distances between the protein sequences belonging to the available organisms over the years, considering two different redundancy criteria. Since the *mirrortree* estimation of *P*-values was based on the mathematical confidence of the correlation, disregarding the biological limitations of the tree similarities, these *P*-values were ignored using the predictions for all the available pairs. In the *p-mirrortree* case, we executed the algorithm creating a maximum of 40 different conservation intervals in which we ran 1.000 permutation steps with a branch-switch probability of 0.05. Both methods produced lists of putative interacting pairs ranked by their reference score, correlation coefficient or *P*-value, respectively. Those pairs whose proteins are present in the same KO group were excluded to avoid artifacts caused by extremely similar trees.\
\
In order to compare the performances within the same year (redundant/non-redundant and *mirrortree*/*p-mirrortree*), only those protein pairs scored in all the results were considered, limiting the evaluation to the discriminant capacity of the scores. The resulting ranked lists were evaluated in the context of [ROC analysis](#performanceevaluation). Complementary evaluations were performed using only the pairs of trees with at least 15 and 30 organisms in common.}